Integration of Cloud computing and Internet of Things: A survey;Cloud computing and Internet of Things (IoT) are two very different technologies that are both already part of our life. Their adoption and use are expected to be more and more pervasive, making them important components of the Future Internet. A novel paradigm where Cloud and IoT are merged together is foreseen as disruptive and as an enabler of a large number of application scenarios. In this paper, we focus our attention on the integration of Cloud and IoT, which is what we call the CloudIoT paradigm. Many works in literature have surveyed Cloud and IoT separately and, more precisely, their main properties, features, underlying technologies, and open issues. However, to the best of our knowledge, these works lack a detailed analysis of the new CloudIoT paradigm, which involves completely new applications, challenges, and research issues. To bridge this gap, in this paper we provide a literature survey on the integration of Cloud and IoT. Starting by analyzing the basics of both IoT and Cloud Computing, we discuss their complementarity, detailing what is currently driving to their integration. Thanks to the adoption of the CloudIoT paradigm a number of applications are gaining momentum: we provide an up-to-date picture of CloudIoT applications in literature, with a focus on their specific research challenges. These challenges are then analyzed in details to show where the main body of research is currently heading. We also discuss what is already available in terms of platforms-both proprietary and open source-and projects implementing the CloudIoT paradigm. Finally, we identify open issues and future directions in this field, which we expect to play a leading role in the landscape of the Future Internet.  2015 Elsevier B.V.;Cloud computing
On the integration of cloud computing and internet of things;Cloud computing and Internet of Things (IoT), two very different technologies, are both already part of our life. Their massive adoption and use is expected to increase further, making them important components of the Future Internet. A novel paradigm where Cloud and IoT are merged together is foreseen as disruptive and an enabler of a large number of application scenarios. In this paper we focus our attention on the integration of Cloud and IoT, which we call the CloudIoT paradigm. Many works in literature have surveyed Cloud and IoT separately: their main properties, features, underlying technologies, and open issues. However, to the best of our knowledge, these works lack a detailed analysis of the CloudIoT paradigm. To bridge this gap, in this paper we review the literature about the integration of Cloud and IoT. We start analyzing and discussing the need for integrating them, the challenges deriving from such integration, and how these issues have been tackled in literature. We then describe application scenarios that have been presented in literature, as well as platforms-both commercial and open source-and projects implementing the CloudIoT paradigm. Finally, we identify open issues, main challenges and future directions in this promising field.  2014 IEEE.;Cloud
Prediction models for diagnosis and prognosis of covid-19: Systematic review and critical appraisal;OBJECTIVE To review and critically appraise published and preprint reports of prediction models for diagnosing coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in patients with suspected infection, for prognosis of patients with covid-19, and for detecting people in the general population at increased risk of becoming infected with covid-19 or being admitted to hospital with the disease. DESIGN Living systematic review and critical appraisal. DATA SOURCES PubMed and Embase through Ovid, Arxiv, medRxiv, and bioRxiv up to 7 April 2020. STUDY SELECTION Studies that developed or validated a multivariable covid-19 related prediction model. DATA EXTRACTION At least two authors independently extracted data using the CHARMS (critical appraisal and data extraction for systematic reviews of prediction modelling studies) checklist;
A Comprehensive Survey on Fog Computing: State-of-the-Art and Research Challenges;Cloud computing with its three key facets (i.e., Infrastructure-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service, and Software-as-a-Service) and its inherent advantages (e.g., elasticity and scalability) still faces several challenges. The distance between the cloud and the end devices might be an issue for latency-sensitive applications such as disaster management and content delivery applications. Service level agreements (SLAs) may also impose processing at locations where the cloud provider does not have data centers. Fog computing is a novel paradigm to address such issues. It enables provisioning resources and services outside the cloud, at the edge of the network, closer to end devices, or eventually, at locations stipulated by SLAs. Fog computing is not a substitute for cloud computing but a powerful complement. It enables processing at the edge while still offering the possibility to interact with the cloud. This paper presents a comprehensive survey on fog computing. It critically reviews the state of the art in the light of a concise set of evaluation criteria. We cover both the architectures and the algorithms that make fog systems. Challenges and research directions are also introduced. In addition, the lessons learned are reviewed and the prospects are discussed in terms of the key role fog is likely to play in emerging technologies such as tactile Internet.  1998-2012 IEEE.;Cloud computing
Machine Learning and Data Mining Methods in Diabetes Research;The remarkable advances in biotechnology and health sciences have led to a significant production of data, such as high throughput genetic data and clinical information, generated from large Electronic Health Records (EHRs). To this end, application of machine learning and data mining methods in biosciences is presently, more than ever before, vital and indispensable in efforts to transform intelligently all available information into valuable knowledge. Diabetes mellitus (DM) is defined as a group of metabolic disorders exerting significant pressure on human health worldwide. Extensive research in all aspects of diabetes (diagnosis, etiopathophysiology, therapy, etc.) has led to the generation of huge amounts of data. The aim of the present study is to conduct a systematic review of the applications of machine learning, data mining techniques and tools in the field of diabetes research with respect to a) Prediction and Diagnosis, b) Diabetic Complications, c) Genetic Background and Environment, and e) Health Care and Management with the first category appearing to be the most popular. A wide range of machine learning algorithms were employed. In general, 85% of those used were characterized by supervised learning approaches and 15% by unsupervised ones, and more specifically, association rules. Support vector machines (SVM) arise as the most successful and widely used algorithm. Concerning the type of data, clinical datasets were mainly used. The title applications in the selected articles project the usefulness of extracting valuable knowledge leading to new hypotheses targeting deeper understanding and further investigation in DM.  2017 The Authors;Biomarker(s) identification
Deep Learning in Mobile and Wireless Networking: A Survey;The rapid uptake of mobile devices and the rising popularity of mobile applications and services pose unprecedented demands on mobile and wireless networking infrastructure. Upcoming 5G systems are evolving to support exploding mobile traffic volumes, real-time extraction of fine-grained analytics, and agile management of network resources, so as to maximize user experience. Fulfilling these tasks is challenging, as mobile environments are increasingly complex, heterogeneous, and evolving. One potential solution is to resort to advanced machine learning techniques, in order to help manage the rise in data volumes and algorithm-driven applications. The recent success of deep learning underpins new and powerful tools that tackle problems in this space. In this paper, we bridge the gap between deep learning and mobile and wireless networking research, by presenting a comprehensive survey of the crossovers between the two areas. We first briefly introduce essential background and state-of-the-art in deep learning techniques with potential applications to networking. We then discuss several techniques and platforms that facilitate the efficient deployment of deep learning onto mobile systems. Subsequently, we provide an encyclopedic review of mobile and wireless networking research based on deep learning, which we categorize by different domains. Drawing from our experience, we discuss how to tailor deep learning to mobile environments. We complete this survey by pinpointing current challenges and open future directions for research.  1998-2012 IEEE.;5G systems
A systematic literature review of blockchain-based applications: Current status,  classification and open issues;This work provides a systematic literature review of blockchain-based applications across multiple domains. The aim is to investigate the current state of blockchain technology and its applications in several specific characteristics of this disruptive technology can revolutionise “business-as-usual” practices. To this end, the theoretical underpinnings of numerous research papers published in high ranked scientific journals during the last decade, along with several reports from grey literature as a means of streamlining our assessment and capturing the continuously expanding blockchain domain, are included in this review. Based on a structured, systematic review and thematic content analysis of the discovered literature, we present a comprehensive classification of blockchain-enabled applications across diverse sectors such as supply chain, business, healthcare, IoT, privacy, and data management, and we establish key themes, trends and emerging areas for research. We also point to the shortcomings identified in the relevant literature, particularly limitations the blockchain technology presents and how these limitations spawn across different sectors and industries. Building on these findings, we identify various research gaps and future exploratory directions that are anticipated to be of significant value both for academics and practitioners.  2018 The Authors;Applications
A survey on security and privacy issues of bitcoin;Bitcoin is a popular cryptocurrency that records all transactions in a distributed append-only public ledger called blockchain. The security of Bitcoin heavily relies on the incentive-compatible proof-of-work (PoW) based distributed consensus protocol, which is run by the network nodes called miners. In exchange for the incentive, the miners are expected to maintain the blockchain honestly. Since its launch in 2009, Bitcoin economy has grown at an enormous rate, and it is now worth about 150 billions of dollars. This exponential growth in the market value of bitcoins motivate adversaries to exploit weaknesses for profit, and researchers to discover new vulnerabilities in the system, propose countermeasures, and predict upcoming trends. In this paper, we present a systematic survey that covers the security and privacy aspects of Bitcoin. We start by giving an overview of the Bitcoin system and its major components along with their functionality and interactions within the system. We review the existing vulnerabilities in Bitcoin and its major underlying technologies such as blockchain and PoW-based consensus protocol. These vulnerabilities lead to the execution of various security threats to the standard functionality of Bitcoin. We then investigate the feasibility and robustness of the state-of-the-art security solutions. Additionally, we discuss the current anonymity considerations in Bitcoin and the privacy-related threats to Bitcoin users along with the analysis of the existing privacy-preserving solutions. Finally, we summarize the critical open challenges, and we suggest directions for future research towards provisioning stringent security and privacy solutions for Bitcoin.  1998-2012 IEEE.;Bitcoins
The role of big data analytics in Internet of Things;The explosive growth in the number of devices connected to the Internet of Things (IoT) and the exponential increase in data consumption only reflect how the growth of big data perfectly overlaps with that of IoT. The management of big data in a continuously expanding network gives rise to non-trivial concerns regarding data collection efficiency, data processing, analytics, and security. To address these concerns, researchers have examined the challenges associated with the successful deployment of IoT. Despite the large number of studies on big data, analytics, and IoT, the convergence of these areas creates several opportunities for flourishing big data and analytics for IoT systems. In this paper, we explore the recent advances in big data analytics for IoT systems as well as the key requirements for managing big data and for enabling analytics in an IoT environment. We taxonomized the literature based on important parameters. We identify the opportunities resulting from the convergence of big data, analytics, and IoT as well as discuss the role of big data analytics in IoT applications. Finally, several open challenges are presented as future research directions.  2017 Elsevier B.V.;Analytics
Machine learning for internet of things data analysis: a survey;Rapid developments in hardware, software, and communication technologies have facilitated the emergence of Internet-connected sensory devices that provide observations and data measurements from the physical world. By 2020, it is estimated that the total number of Internet-connected devices being used will be between 25 and 50 billion. As these numbers grow and technologies become more mature, the volume of data being published will increase. The technology of Internet-connected devices, referred to as Internet of Things (IoT), continues to extend the current Internet by providing connectivity and interactions between the physical and cyber worlds. In addition to an increased volume, the IoT generates big data characterized by its velocity in terms of time and location dependency, with a variety of multiple modalities and varying data quality. Intelligent processing and analysis of this big data are the key to developing smart IoT applications. This article assesses the various machine learning methods that deal with the challenges presented by IoT data by considering smart cities as the main use case. The key contribution of this study is the presentation of a taxonomy of machine learning algorithms explaining how different techniques are applied to the data in order to extract higher level information. The potential and challenges of machine learning for IoT data analytics will also be discussed. A use case of applying a Support Vector Machine (SVM) to Aarhus smart city traffic data is presented for a more detailed exploration.  2018 Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications;Internet of Things
Artificial intelligence in healthcare;Artificial intelligence (AI) is gradually changing medical practice. With recent progress in digitized data acquisition, machine learning and computing infrastructure, AI applications are expanding into areas that were previously thought to be only the province of human experts. In this Review Article, we outline recent breakthroughs in AI technologies and their biomedical applications, identify the challenges for further progress in medical AI systems, and summarize the economic, legal and social implications of AI in healthcare.  2018, Springer Nature Limited.;
A Blockchain Research Framework: What We (don’t) Know Where We Go from Here and How We Will Get There;While blockchain technology is commonly considered potentially disruptive in various regards, there is a lack of understanding where and how blockchain technology is effectively applicable and where it has mentionable practical effects. This issue has given rise to critical voices that judge the technology as over-hyped. Against this backdrop, this study adapts an established research framework to structure the insights of the current body of research on blockchain technology, outline the present research scope as well as disregarded topics, and sketch out multidisciplinary research approaches. The framework differentiates three groups of activities (design and features, measurement and value, management and organization) at four levels of analysis (users and society, intermediaries, platforms, firms and industry). The review shows that research has predominantly focused on technological questions of design and features, while neglecting application, value creation, and governance. In order to foster substantial blockchain research that addresses meaningful questions, this study identifies several avenues for future studies. Given the breadth of open questions, it shows where research can benefit from multidisciplinary collaborations and presents data sources as starting points for empirical investigations.  2017, US Government.;Blockchain
Blockchain and iot integration: A systematic survey;The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to the interconnection of smart devices to collect data and make intelligent decisions. However, a lack of intrinsic security measures makes IoT vulnerable to privacy and security threats. With its “security by design,” Blockchain (BC) can help in addressing major security requirements in IoT. BC capabilities like immutability, transparency, auditability, data encryption and operational resilience can help solve most architectural shortcomings of IoT. This article presents a comprehensive survey on BC and IoT integration. The objective of this paper is to analyze the current research trends on the usage of BC-related approaches and technologies in an IoT context. This paper presents the following novelties, with respect to related work: (i) it covers different application domains, organizing the available literature according to this categorization, (ii) it introduces two usage patterns, i.e., device manipulation and data management (open marketplace solution), and (iii) it reports on the development level of some of the presented solutions. We also analyze the main challenges faced by the research community in the smooth integration of BC and IoT, and point out the main open issues and future research directions. Last but not least, we also present a survey about novel uses of BC in the machine economy.  2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Blockchain
The limits of trust-free systems: A literature review on blockchain technology and trust in the sharing economy;At the tip of the hype cycle, trust-free systems based on blockchain technology promise to revolutionize interactions between peers that require high degrees of trust, usually facilitated by third party providers. Peer-to-peer platforms for resource sharing represent a frequently discussed field of application for “trust-free” blockchain technology. However, trust between peers plays a crucial and complex role in virtually all sharing economy interactions. In this article, we hence shed light on how these conflicting notions may be resolved and explore the potential of blockchain technology for dissolving the issue of trust in the sharing economy. By means of a dual literature review we find that 1) the conceptualization of trust differs substantially between the contexts of blockchain and the sharing economy, 2) blockchain technology is to some degree suitable to replace trust in platform providers, and that 3) trust-free systems are hardly transferable to sharing economy interactions and will crucially depend on the development of trusted interfaces for blockchain-based sharing economy ecosystems.  2018 Elsevier B.V.;Blockchain
Industrial Internet: A Survey on the Enabling Technologies  Applications and Challenges;This paper provides an overview of the Industrial Internet with the emphasis on the architecture, enabling technologies, applications, and existing challenges. The Industrial Internet is enabled by recent rising sensing, communication, cloud computing, and big data analytic technologies, and has been receiving much attention in the industrial section due to its potential for smarter and more efficient industrial productions. With the merge of intelligent devices, intelligent systems, and intelligent decisioning with the latest information technologies, the Industrial Internet will enhance the productivity, reduce cost and wastes through the entire industrial economy. This paper starts by investigating the brief history of the Industrial Internet. We then present the 5C architecture that is widely adopted to characterize the Industrial Internet systems. Then, we investigate the enabling technologies of each layer that cover from industrial networking, industrial intelligent sensing, cloud computing, big data, smart control, and security management. This provides the foundations for those who are interested in understanding the essence and key enablers of the Industrial Internet. Moreover, we discuss the application domains that are gradually transformed by the Industrial Internet technologies, including energy, health care, manufacturing, public section, and transportation. Finally, we present the current technological challenges in developing Industrial Internet systems to illustrate open research questions that need to be addressed to fully realize the potential of future Industrial Internet systems.  2017 IEEE.;5C architecture
A Survey of Wearable Devices and Challenges;As smartphone penetration saturates, we are witnessing a new trend in personal mobile devices-wearable mobile devices or simply wearables as it is often called. Wearables come in many different forms and flavors targeting different accessories and clothing that people wear. Although small in size, they are often expected to continuously sense, collect, and upload various physiological data to improve quality of life. These requirements put significant demand on improving communication security and reducing power consumption of the system, fueling new research in these areas. In this paper, we first provide a comprehensive survey and classification of commercially available wearables and research prototypes. We then examine the communication security issues facing the popular wearables followed by a survey of solutions studied in the literature. We also categorize and explain the techniques for improving the power efficiency of wearables. Next, we survey the research literature in wearable computing. We conclude with future directions in wearable market and research.  1998-2012 IEEE.;smart watches
Enabling technologies for fog computing in healthcare IoT systems;Context: A fog computing architecture that is geographically distributed and to which a variety of heterogeneous devices are ubiquitously connected at the end of a network in order to provide collaboratively variable and flexible communication, computation, and storage services. Fog computing has many advantages and it is suited for the applications whereby real-time, high response time, and low latency are of the utmost importance, especially healthcare applications. Objectives: The aim of this study was to present a systematic literature review of the technologies for fog computing in the healthcare IoT systems field and analyze the previous. Providing motivation, limitations faced by researchers, and suggestions proposed to analysts for improving this essential research field. Methods: The investigations were systematically performed on fog computing in the healthcare field by all studies;
A blockchain future for internet of things security: a position paper;Internet of Things (IoT) devices are increasingly being found in civilian and military contexts, ranging from smart cities and smart grids to Internet-of-Medical-Things, Internet-of-Vehicles, Internet-of-Military-Things, Internet-of-Battlefield-Things, etc. In this paper, we survey articles presenting IoT security solutions published in English since January 2016. We make a number of observations, including the lack of publicly available IoT datasets that can be used by the research and practitioner communities. Given the potentially sensitive nature of IoT datasets, there is a need to develop a standard for sharing IoT datasets among the research and practitioner communities and other relevant stakeholders. Thus, we posit the potential for blockchain technology in facilitating secure sharing of IoT datasets (e.g., using blockchain to ensure the integrity of shared datasets) and securing IoT systems, before presenting two conceptual blockchain-based approaches. We then conclude this paper with nine potential research questions.  2018 Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications;Blockchain
EduCTX: A blockchain-based higher education credit platform;Blockchain technology enables the creation of a decentralized environment, where transactions and data are not under the control of any third party organization. Any transaction ever completed is recorded in a public ledger in a verifiable and permanent way. Based on the blockchain technology, we propose a global higher education credit platform, named EduCTX. This platform is based on the concept of the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS). It constitutes a globally trusted, decentralized higher education credit, and grading system that can offer a globally unified viewpoint for students and higher education institutions (HEIs), as well as for other potential stakeholders, such as companies, institutions, and organizations. As a proof of concept, we present a prototype implementation of the environment, based on the open-source Ark Blockchain Platform. Based on a globally distributed peer-To-peer network, EduCTX will process, manage, and control ECTX tokens, which represent credits that students gain for completed courses, such as ECTS. HEIs are the peers of the blockchain network. The platform is a first step toward a more transparent and technologically advanced form of higher education systems. The EduCTX platform represents the basis of the EduCTX initiative, which anticipates that various HEIs would join forces in order to create a globally efficient, simplified, and ubiquitous environment in order to avoid language and administrative barriers. Therefore, we invite and encourage HEIs to join the EduCTX initiative and the EduCTX blockchain network.  2018 IEEE.;Blockchain
Knowledge Discovery and interactive Data Mining in Bioinformatics - State-of-the-Art  future challenges and research directions;[No abstract available];Bioinformatics
Internet of things security: A top-down survey;Internet of Things (IoT) is one of the promising technologies that has attracted a lot of attention in both industrial and academic fields these years. It aims to integrate seamlessly both physical and digital worlds in one single ecosystem that makes up a new intelligent era of Internet. This technology offers a huge business value for organizations and provides opportunities for many existing applications such as energy, healthcare and other sectors. However, as new emergent technology, IoT suffers from several security issues which are most challenging than those from other fields regarding its complex environment and resources-constrained IoT devices. A lot of researches have been initiated in order to provide efficient security solutions in IoT, particularly to address resources constraints and scalability issues. Furthermore, some technologies related to networking and cryptocurrency fields such as Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Blockchain are revolutionizing the world of the Internet of Things thanks to their efficiency and scalability. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive top down survey of the most recent proposed security and privacy solutions in IoT. We discuss particularly the benefits that new approaches such as blockchain and Software Defined Networking can bring to the security and the privacy in IoT in terms of flexibility and scalability. Finally, we give a general classification of existing solutions and comparison based on important parameters.  2018 Elsevier B.V.;Blockchain
Mobile Cloud Computing Model and Big Data Analysis for Healthcare Applications;Mobile devices are increasingly becoming an indispensable part of people's daily life, facilitating to perform a variety of useful tasks. Mobile cloud computing integrates mobile and cloud computing to expand their capabilities and benefits and overcomes their limitations, such as limited memory, CPU power, and battery life. Big data analytics technologies enable extracting value from data having four Vs: volume, variety, velocity, and veracity. This paper discusses networked healthcare and the role of mobile cloud computing and big data analytics in its enablement. The motivation and development of networked healthcare applications and systems is presented along with the adoption of cloud computing in healthcare. A cloudlet-based mobile cloud-computing infrastructure to be used for healthcare big data applications is described. The techniques, tools, and applications of big data analytics are reviewed. Conclusions are drawn concerning the design of networked healthcare systems using big data and mobile cloud-computing technologies. An outlook on networked healthcare is given.  2013 IEEE.;big data analytics
Wearables in Medicine;Wearables as medical technologies are becoming an integral part of personal analytics, measuring physical status, recording physiological parameters, or informing schedule for medication. These continuously evolving technology platforms do not only promise to help people pursue a healthier life style, but also provide continuous medical data for actively tracking metabolic status, diagnosis, and treatment. Advances in the miniaturization of flexible electronics, electrochemical biosensors, microfluidics, and artificial intelligence algorithms have led to wearable devices that can generate real-time medical data within the Internet of things. These flexible devices can be configured to make conformal contact with epidermal, ocular, intracochlear, and dental interfaces to collect biochemical or electrophysiological signals. This article discusses consumer trends in wearable electronics, commercial and emerging devices, and fabrication methods. It also reviews real-time monitoring of vital signs using biosensors, stimuli-responsive materials for drug delivery, and closed-loop theranostic systems. It covers future challenges in augmented, virtual, and mixed reality, communication modes, energy management, displays, conformity, and data safety. The development of patient-oriented wearable technologies and their incorporation in randomized clinical trials will facilitate the design of safe and effective approaches.  2018 The Authors. Published by WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim;biosensors
Fog computing: Survey of trends, architectures, requirements,  and research directions;Emerging technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT) require latency-aware computation for real-time application processing. In IoT environments, connected things generate a huge amount of data, which are generally referred to as big data. Data generated from IoT devices are generally processed in a cloud infrastructure because of the on-demand services and scalability features of the cloud computing paradigm. However, processing IoT application requests on the cloud exclusively is not an efficient solution for some IoT applications, especially time-sensitive ones. To address this issue, Fog computing, which resides in between cloud and IoT devices, was proposed. In general, in the Fog computing environment, IoT devices are connected to Fog devices. These Fog devices are located in close proximity to users and are responsible for intermediate computation and storage. One of the key challenges in running IoT applications in a Fog computing environment are resource allocation and task scheduling. Fog computing research is still in its infancy, and taxonomy-based investigation into the requirements of Fog infrastructure, platform, and applications mapped to current research is still required. This survey will help the industry and research community synthesize and identify the requirements for Fog computing. This paper starts with an overview of Fog computing in which the definition of Fog computing, research trends, and the technical differences between Fog and cloud are reviewed. Then, we investigate numerous proposed Fog computing architectures and describe the components of these architectures in detail. From this, the role of each component will be defined, which will help in the deployment of Fog computing. Next, a taxonomy of Fog computing is proposed by considering the requirements of the Fog computing paradigm. We also discuss existing research works and gaps in resource allocation and scheduling, fault tolerance, simulation tools, and Fog-based microservices. Finally, by addressing the limitations of current research works, we present some open issues, which will determine the future research direction for the Fog computing paradigm.  2013 IEEE.;fault tolerance
A review of Internet of Things (IoT) embedded sustainable supply chain for industry 4.0 requirements;Supply Chain organizations in the present global environment operate in market that is increasingly complex and dynamic in nature. Sustainable supply chain becomes inevitable to meet the aggressive change in the customer requirements. Based on the reviews, it is revealed that manufacturing companies need to speed up in shifting the focus towards sustainability and make use of technology like ‘Internet of Things’ (IoT) to meet the organization's goal. The objective of this research paper is to review the various aspects of SCM, ERP, IoT and Industry 4.0 and explore the potential opportunities available in IoT embedded sustainable supply chain for Industry 4.0 transformation. In this review, a comprehensive study on various factors, that affects the sustainable supply chain were analyzed and the results recorded. Based on the review, a framework for assessing the readiness of supply chain organization from various perspectives has been proposed to meet the requirements of the fourth Industrial Revolution. The conceptual framework model has been formulated from five important perspectives of supply chain management namely Business, Technology, Sustainable Development, Collaboration and Management Strategy. This study furnishes the criteria that can be assessed by companies to realize the readiness for industry 4.0 transformation.  2018 Elsevier Ltd;Closed loop supply chain (CLSC)
Computational health informatics in the big data age: A survey;The explosive growth and widespread accessibility of digital health data have led to a surge of research activity in the healthcare and data sciences fields. The conventional approaches for health data management have achieved limited success as they are incapable of handling the huge amount of complex data with high volume, high velocity, and high variety. This article presents a comprehensive overview of the existing challenges, techniques, and future directions for computational health informatics in the big data age, with a structured analysis of the historical and state-of-the-art methods. We have summarized the challenges into four Vs (i.e., volume, velocity, variety, and veracity) and proposed a systematic data-processing pipeline for generic big data in health informatics, covering data capturing, storing, sharing, analyzing, searching, and decision support. Specifically, numerous techniques and algorithms in machine learning are categorized and compared. On the basis of this material, we identify and discuss the essential prospects lying ahead for computational health informatics in this big data age.  2016 ACM.;
Blockchain in healthcare applications: Research challenges and opportunities;Blockchain has a range of built-in features, such as distributed ledger, decentralized storage, authentication, security, and immutability, and has moved beyond hype to practical applications in industry sectors such as Healthcare. Blockchain applications in the healthcare sector generally require more stringent authentication, interoperability, and record sharing requirements, due to exacting legal requirements, such as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Building on existing blockchain technologies, researchers in both academia and industry have started to explore applications that are geared toward healthcare use. These applications include smart contracts, fraud detection, and identity verification. Even with these improvements, there are still concerns as blockchain technology has its own specific vulnerabilities and issues that need to be addressed, such as mining incentives, mining attacks, and key management. Additionally, many of the healthcare applications have unique requirements that are not addressed by many of the blockchain experiments being explored, as highlighted in this survey paper. A number of potential research opportunities are also discussed in this paper.  2019 Elsevier Ltd;Authentication
A survey of communication protocols for internet of things and related challenges of fog and cloud computing integration;The fast increment in the number of IoT (Internet of Things) devices is accelerating the research on new solutions to make cloud services scalable. In this context, the novel concept of fog computing as well as the combined fog-to-cloud computing paradigm is becoming essential to decentralize the cloud, while bringing the services closer to the end-system. This article surveys e application layer communication protocols to fulfill the IoT communication requirements, and their potential for implementation in fog- and cloud-based IoT systems. To this end, the article first briefly presents potential protocol candidates, including request-reply and publish-subscribe protocols. After that, the article surveys these protocols based on their main characteristics, as well as the main performance issues, including latency, energy consumption, and network throughput. These findings are thereafter used to place the protocols in each segment of the system (IoT, fog, cloud), and thus opens up the discussion on their choice, interoperability, and wider system integration. The survey is expected to be useful to system architects and protocol designers when choosing the communication protocols in an integrated IoT-to-fog-to-cloud system architecture.  2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Cloud computing
The impact of the hybrid platform of internet of things and cloud computing on healthcare systems: opportunities,  challenges,  and open problems;Cloud Computing (CC) and the Internet of Things (IoT) have emerged as new platforms in the ICT revolution of the twenty-first century. The adoption of the CloudIoT paradigm in the healthcare field can bring several opportunities to medical IT, and experts believe that it can significantly improve healthcare services and contribute to its continuous and systematic innovation. This paper presents a comprehensive review of the current literature on integration of CC and IoT to solving various problems in healthcare applications such as smart hospitals, medicine control, and remote medical services. Also, a brief introduction to cloud computing and internet of things with an application to health care is given. This paper presents a new concept of the integration of CC and IoT for healthcare applications, which is what we;
A Survey of Blockchain Technology Applied to Smart Cities: Research Issues and Challenges;In recent years, the rapid urbanization of world's population causes many economic, social, and environmental problems, which affect people's living conditions and quality of life significantly. The concept of 'smart city' brings opportunities to solve these urban problems. The objectives of smart cities are to make the best use of public resources, provide high-quality services to the citizens, and improve the people's quality of life. Information and communication technology plays an important role in the implementation of smart cities. Blockchain as an emerging technology has many good features, such as trust-free, transparency, pseudonymity, democracy, automation, decentralization, and security. These features of blockchain are helpful to improve smart city services and promote the development of smart cities. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive survey on the literature involving blockchain technology applied to smart cities. First, the related works and background knowledge are introduced. Then, we review how blockchain technology is applied in the realm of smart cities, from the perspectives of smart citizen, smart healthcare, smart grid, smart transportation, supply chain management, and others. Finally, some challenges and broader perspectives are discussed.  1998-2012 IEEE.;blockchain
Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) and topic modeling: models,  applications,  a survey;Topic modeling is one of the most powerful techniques in text mining for data mining, latent data discovery, and finding relationships among data and text documents. Researchers have published many articles in the field of topic modeling and applied in various fields such as software engineering, political science, medical and linguistic science, etc. There are various methods for topic modelling;
The blockchain: State-of-the-art and research challenges;The blockchain revolutionizes the creation of both scalable information technology systems and diversified applications by integrating the increasingly popular artificial intelligence, cloud computing, and big data. Various industries have recently begun to implement the exploration of blockchain. It will not take long for the blockchain to spread all over the world. In order to identify and further the development of the blockchain technology, this paper reviews the extant studies on the blockchain and its key components, blockchain-based IoT, blockchain-based security, blockchain-based data management, and the main applications based on the blockchain, and it delineates potential trends and challenges. This study provides a comprehensive overview of state-of-the-art blockchain and describes a forward-looking direction.  2019 Elsevier Inc.;Blockchain
Privacy preservation in blockchain based IoT systems: Integration issues,  prospects, challenges, and future research directions;Modern Internet of Things (IoT) systems are paving their path for a revolutionized world in which majority of our objects of everyday use will be interconnected. These objects will be able to link and communicate with each other and their surroundings in order to automate majority of our tasks. This interconnection of IoT nodes require security, seamless authentication, robustness and easy maintenance services. In order to provide such salient features, blockchain comes out as a viable solution. The decentralized nature of blockchain has resolved many security, maintenance, and authentication issues of IoT systems. Therefore, an immense increase in applications of blockchain-based IoT systems can be seen from the past few years. However, blockchain-based IoT network is public, so transactional details and encrypted keys are open and visible to everybody in that network. Thus, any adversary can infer critical information of users from this public infrastructure. In this paper, we discuss the privacy issues caused due to integration of blockchain in IoT applications by focusing over the applications of our daily use. Furthermore, we discuss implementation of five privacy preservation strategies in blockchain-based IoT systems named as anonymization, encryption, private contract, mixing, and differential privacy. Finally, we discuss challenges, and future directions for research in privacy preservation of blockchain-based IoT systems. This paper can serve as a basis of development of future privacy preservation strategies to address several privacy problems of IoT systems operating over blockchain.  2019 Elsevier B.V.;Blockchain
Blockchain for smart communities: Applications,  challenges and opportunities;Since the success of Bitcoin, there have been increased focus of studying the application of blockchain in a broad range of applications, such as in solutions facilitating identity privacy and transaction security using a decentralized architecture via different consensus mechanisms (e.g. proof-of-work) between different geo-located IoT devices/nodes in our increasingly digitalized society (e.g. smart city). In this paper, we survey the usage of blockchain technology for smart communities, focusing on key components of the blockchain applications. We also study the various process models used in the execution of secure transactions. Specifically, we present a detailed taxonomy on the applications, process models used, and communication infrastructure support needed to execute various applications.  2019 Elsevier Ltd;Blockchain
Fog computing for the Internet of Things: A survey;Research in the Internet of Things (IoT) conceives a world where everyday objects are connected to the Internet and exchange, store, process, and collect data from the surrounding environment. IoT devices are becoming essential for supporting the delivery of data to enable electronic services, but they are not sufficient in most cases to host application services directly due to their intrinsic resource constraints. Fog Computing (FC) can be a suitable paradigm to overcome these limitations, as it can coexist and cooperate with centralized Cloud systems and extends the latter toward the network edge. In this way, it is possible to distribute resources and services of computing, storage, and networking along the Cloud-to-Things continuum. Assuch, FC brings all the benefits of Cloud Computing (CC) closer to end (user) devices. This article presents a survey on the employment of FC to support IoT devices and services. The principles and literature characterizing FC are described, highlighting six IoT application domains that may benefit from the use of this paradigm. The extension of Cloud systems towards the network edge also creates new challenges and can have an impact on existing approaches employed in Cloud-based deployments. Research directions being adopted by the community are highlighted, with an indication of which of these are likely to have the greatest impact. An overview of existing FC software and hardware platforms for the IoT is also provided, along with the standardisation efforts in this area initiated by the OpenFog Consortium (OFC).  2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Cloud computing
Internet-of-Things and Smart Homes for Elderly Healthcare: An End User Perspective;Although an Internet-of-Things-based smart home solution can provide an improved and better approach to healthcare management, yet its end user adoption is very low. With elderly people as the main target, these conservative users pose a serious challenge to the successful implementation of smart home healthcare services. The objective of this research was to develop and test a theoretical framework empirically for determining the core factors that can affect the elderly users' acceptance of smart home services for healthcare. Accordingly, an online survey was conducted with 254 elderly people aged 55 years and above across four Asian countries. Partial least square structural equation modeling was applied to analyze the effect of eight hypothesized predicting constructs. The user perceptions were measured on a conceptual level rather than the actual usage intention toward a specific service. Performance expectancy, effort expectancy, expert advice, and perceived trust have a positive impact on the behavioral intention. The same association is negative for technology anxiety and perceived cost. Facilitating conditions and social influence do not have any effect on the behavioral intention. The model could explain 81.4% of the total variance in the dependent variable i.e., behavioral intention. Effort expectancy is the leading predictor of smart homes for healthcare acceptance among the elderly. Together with expert advice, perceived trust, and perceived cost, these four factors represent the key influence of the elderly peoples' acceptance behavior. This paper provides the groundwork to explore the process of the actual adoption of smart home services for healthcare by the elderly people with potential future research areas.  2013 IEEE.;Elderly
Smart devices for older adults managing chronic disease: A scoping review;Background: The emergence of smartphones and tablets featuring vastly advancing functionalities (eg, sensors, computing power, interactivity) has transformed the way mHealth interventions support chronic disease management for older adults. Baby boomers have begun to widely adopt smart devices and have expressed their desire to incorporate technologies into their chronic care. Although smart devices are actively used in research, little is known about the extent, characteristics, and range of smart device-based interventions. Objective: We conducted a scoping review to (1) understand the nature, extent, and range of smart device-based research activities, (2) identify the limitations of the current research and knowledge gap, and (3) recommend future research directions. Methods: We used the Arksey and O’Malley framework to conduct a scoping review. We identified relevant studies from MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and Web of Science databases using search terms related to mobile health, chronic disease, and older adults. Selected studies used smart devices, sampled older adults, and were published in 2010 or after. The exclusion criteria were sole reliance on text messaging (short message service, SMS) or interactive voice response, validation of an electronic version of a questionnaire, postoperative monitoring, and evaluation of usability. We reviewed references. We charted quantitative data and analyzed qualitative studies using thematic synthesis. To collate and summarize the data, we used the chronic care model. Results: A total of 51 articles met the eligibility criteria. Research activity increased steeply in 2014 (17/51, 33%) and preexperimental design predominated (16/50, 32%). Diabetes (16/46, 35%) and heart failure management (9/46, 20%) were most frequently studied. We identified diversity and heterogeneity in the collection of biometrics and patient-reported outcome measures within and between chronic diseases. Across studies, we found 8 self-management supporting strategies and 4 distinct communication channels for supporting the decision-making process. In particular, self-monitoring (38/40, 95%), automated feedback (15/40, 38%), and patient education (13/40, 38%) were commonly used as self-management support strategies. Of the 23 studies that implemented decision support strategies, clinical decision making was delegated to patients in 10 studies (43%). The impact on patient outcomes was consistent with studies that used cellular phones. Patients with heart failure and asthma reported improved quality of life. Qualitative analysis yielded 2 themes of facilitating technology adoption for older adults and 3 themes of barriers. Conclusions: Limitations of current research included a lack of gerontological focus, dominance of preexperimental design, narrow research scope, inadequate support for participants, and insufficient evidence for clinical outcome. Recommendations for future research include generating evidence for smart device-based programs, using patient-generated data for advanced data mining techniques, validating patient decision support systems, and expanding mHealth practice through innovative technologies.  Ben YB Kim, Joon Lee.;Chronic disease
Big Data Meet Cyber-Physical Systems: A Panoramic Survey;The world is witnessing an unprecedented growth of cyber-physical systems (CPS), which are foreseen to revolutionize our world via creating new services and applications in a variety of sectors, such as environmental monitoring, mobile-health systems, intelligent transportation systems, and so on. The information and communication technology sector is experiencing a significant growth in data traffic, driven by the widespread usage of smartphones, tablets, and video streaming, along with the significant growth of sensors deployments that are anticipated in the near future. It is expected to outstandingly increase the growth rate of raw sensed data. In this paper, we present the CPS taxonomy via providing a broad overview of data collection, storage, access, processing, and analysis. Compared with other survey papers, this is the first panoramic survey on big data for CPS, where our objective is to provide a panoramic summary of different CPS aspects. Furthermore, CPS requires cybersecurity to protect them against malicious attacks and unauthorized intrusion, which become a challenge with the enormous amount of data that are continuously being generated in the network. Thus, we also provide an overview of the different security solutions proposed for CPS big data storage, access, and analytics. We also discuss big data meeting green challenges in the contexts of CPS.  2013 IEEE.;big data; machine learning; real-time analytics; social computing; space-time analytics;" sustainability""";
Machine learning in mental health: A scoping review of methods and applications;Background This paper aims to synthesise the literature on machine learning (ML) and big data applications for mental health, highlighting current research and applications in practice.Methods We employed a scoping review methodology to rapidly map the field of ML in mental health. Eight health and information technology research databases were searched for papers covering this domain. Articles were assessed by two reviewers, and data were extracted on the article's mental health application, ML technique, data type, and study results. Articles were then synthesised via narrative review.Results Three hundred papers focusing on the application of ML to mental health were identified. Four main application domains emerged in the literature, including: (i) detection and diagnosis;
A survey on health monitoring systems for health smart homes;Aging population ratios are rising significantly. Health monitoring systems (HMS) in smart environments have evolved rapidly to become a viable alternative to traditional healthcare solutions. The aim of HMS is to not only reduce costs but to also provide timely e-health services to individuals wishing to maintain their independence. In this way, elderly people can avoid, for as long as possible, any interaction with healthcare institutions (e.g. nursing homes and hospitals), which in turn reduces pressure on the health system. To fully realise this vision of seamless e-health services supporting people in need of them, a number of challenges that need further investigation still exist. To this end, we provide an overview of the current state of the art for smart health monitoring systems. We review HMS in smart environments from a general perspective and with a particular focus on systems for the elderly and dependent people. We look at the challenges for these systems from the perspective of developing the technology itself, system requirements, system design and modelling. We present a consolidated picture of the most important functions and services offered by HMS for monitoring and detecting human behaviour including its concepts, approaches, and processing techniques. Moreover, we provide an extensive, in-depth analysis and evaluation of the existing research findings in the area of e-health systems. Finally, we present challenges and open issues facing the smart HMS field and we make recommendations on how to improve future systems.  2018 Elsevier B.V.;Context-aware
Big data from electronic health records for early and late translational cardiovascular research: Challenges and potential;Aims Cohorts of millions of people's health records, whole genome sequencing, imaging, sensor, societal and publicly available data present a rapidly expanding digital trace of health. We aimed to critically review, for the first time, the challenges and potential of big data across early and late stages of translational cardiovascular disease research. Methods and results We sought exemplars based on literature reviews and expertise across the BigData@Heart Consortium. We identified formidable challenges including: data quality, knowing what data exist, the legal and ethical framework for their use, data sharing, building and maintaining public trust, developing standards for defining disease, developing tools for scalable, replicable science and equipping the clinical and scientific work force with new inter-disciplinary skills. Opportunities claimed for big health record data include: richer profiles of health and disease from birth to death and from the molecular to the societal scale;
A survey on internet of things and cloud computing for healthcare;The fast development of the Internet of Things (IoT) technology in recent years has supported connections of numerous smart things along with sensors and established seamless data exchange between them, so it leads to a stringy requirement for data analysis and data storage platform such as cloud computing and fog computing. Healthcare is one of the application domains in IoT that draws enormous interest from industry, the research community, and the public sector. The development of IoT and cloud computing is improving patient safety, staff satisfaction, and operational efficiency in the medical industry. This survey is conducted to analyze the latest IoT components, applications, and market trends of IoT in healthcare, as well as study current development in IoT and cloud computing-based healthcare applications since 2015. We also consider how promising technologies such as cloud computing, ambient assisted living, big data, and wearables are being applied in the healthcare industry and discover various IoT, e-health regulations and policies worldwide to determine how they assist the sustainable development of IoT and cloud computing in the healthcare industry. Moreover, an in-depth review of IoT privacy and security issues, including potential threats, attack types, and security setups from a healthcare viewpoint is conducted. Finally, this paper analyzes previous well-known security models to deal with security risks and provides trends, highlighted opportunities, and challenges for the IoT-based healthcare future development.  2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Cloud computing
Methodological challenges and analytic opportunities for modeling and interpreting Big Healthcare Data;Managing, processing and understanding big healthcare data is challenging, costly and demanding. Without a robust fundamental theory for representation, analysis and inference, a roadmap for uniform handling and analyzing of such complex data remains elusive. In this article, we outline various big data challenges, opportunities, modeling methods and software techniques for blending complex healthcare data, advanced analytic tools, and distributed scientific computing. Using imaging, genetic and healthcare data we provide examples of processing heterogeneous datasets using distributed cloud services, automated and semi-automated classification techniques, and open-science protocols. Despite substantial advances, new innovative technologies need to be developed that enhance, scale and optimize the management and processing of large, complex and heterogeneous data. Stakeholder investments in data acquisition, research and development, computational infrastructure and education will be critical to realize the huge potential of big data, to reap the expected information benefits and to build lasting knowledge assets. Multi-faceted proprietary, open-source, and community developments will be essential to enable broad, reliable, sustainable and efficient data-driven discovery and analytics. Big data will affect every sector of the economy and their hallmark will be 'team science'.  2016 Dinov.;Analytics
Seven HCI Grand Challenges;This article aims to investigate the Grand Challenges which arise in the current and emerging landscape of rapid technological evolution towards more intelligent interactive technologies, coupled with increased and widened societal needs, as well as individual and collective expectations that HCI, as a discipline, is called upon to address. A perspective oriented to humane and social values is adopted, formulating the challenges in terms of the impact of emerging intelligent interactive technologies on human life both at the individual and societal levels. Seven Grand Challenges are identified and presented in this article: Human-Technology Symbiosis;
Internet of Things (IoT),  mobile cloud,  cloudlet, mobile IoT, IoT cloud, fog, mobile edge, and edge emerging computing paradigms: Disambiguation and research directions;Currently, we are experiencing a technological shift, which is expected to change the way we program and interact with the world. Cloud computing and mobile computing are two prominent research areas that have already had such an impact. The Internet of Things (IoT), which is concerned with building a network of Internet-enabled devices to promote a smart environment, is another promising area of research. Numerous emerging computing paradigms related to those areas of research and/or their intersections have come into play. These include Mobile Cloud Computing (MCC), cloudlet computing, mobile clouds, mobile IoT computing, IoT cloud computing, fog computing, Mobile Edge Computing (MEC), edge computing, the Web of Things (WoT), the Semantic WoT (SWoT), the Wisdom WoT (W2T), opportunistic sensing, participatory sensing, mobile crowdsensing, and mobile crowdsourcing. Unfortunately, those paradigms suffer from the lack of standard definitions, and so we frequently encounter a single term referring to various paradigms or several terms referring to a single paradigm. Accordingly, this paper attempts to disambiguate those paradigms and explain how and where they fit in the above three areas of research and/or their intersections before it becomes a serious problem. They are tracked back to their inception as much as possible. This is in addition to discussing research directions in each area. The paper also introduces technologies related to the IoT such as ubiquitous and pervasive computing, the Internet of Nano Things (IoNT), and the Internet of Underwater Things (IoUT).  2018 Elsevier Ltd;"Cloudlet computing, Semantic web of things, Web of things, Wisdom web of things""	"
Blockchain and the related issues: a review of current research topics;The blockchain represents emerging technologies and future trends. For the traditional social organization and mode of operation, the development of the blockchain is a revolution. As a decentralized infrastructure and distributed general ledger agreement, the blockchain presents us with a great opportunity to establish data security and trust for automation and intelligence development in the Internet of Things (IoT) and it creates a new un-centralized programmable smart ecosystem. Our research synthesizes and analyses extant articles that focus on blockchain-related perspectives which will potentially play an important role in sustainable development in the world. Blockchain applications and future directions always attract more attention. Blockchain technology provides strong scalability and interoperability between the intelligent and the physical worlds.  2018,  2018 Antai College of Economics and Management, Shanghai Jiao Tong University.;Bitcoin
Machine learning in human movement biomechanics: Best practices,  common pitfalls,  and new opportunities;Traditional laboratory experiments, rehabilitation clinics, and wearable sensors offer biomechanists a wealth of data on healthy and pathological movement. To harness the power of these data and make research more efficient, modern machine learning techniques are starting to complement traditional statistical tools. This survey summarizes the current usage of machine learning methods in human movement biomechanics and highlights best practices that will enable critical evaluation of the literature. We carried out a PubMed/Medline database search for original research articles that used machine learning to study movement biomechanics in patients with musculoskeletal and neuromuscular diseases. Most studies that met our inclusion criteria focused on classifying pathological movement, predicting risk of developing a disease, estimating the effect of an intervention, or automatically recognizing activities to facilitate out-of-clinic patient monitoring. We found that research studies build and evaluate models inconsistently, which motivated our discussion of best practices. We provide recommendations for training and evaluating machine learning models and discuss the potential of several underutilized approaches, such as deep learning, to generate new knowledge about human movement. We believe that cross-training biomechanists in data science and a cultural shift toward sharing of data and tools are essential to maximize the impact of biomechanics research.  2018;Data science
Privacy in the Smart City - Applications,  Technologies, Challenges, and Solutions;"Many modern cities strive to integrate information technology into every aspect of city life to create so-called smart cities. Smart cities rely on a large number of application areas and technologies to realize complex interactions between citizens, third parties, and city departments. This overwhelming complexity is one reason why holistic privacy protection only rarely enters the picture. A lack of privacy can result in discrimination and social sorting, creating a fundamentally unequal society. To prevent this, we believe that a better understanding of smart cities and their privacy implications is needed. We therefore systematize the application areas, enabling technologies, privacy types, attackers, and data sources for the attacks, giving structure to the fuzzy term ""smart city."" Based on our taxonomies, we describe existing privacy-enhancing technologies, review the state of the art in real cities around the world, and discuss promising future research directions. Our survey can serve as a reference guide, contributing to the development of privacy-friendly smart cities.  2017 IEEE.";privacy
Teleneurology and mobile technologies: The future of neurological care;Neurological disorders are the leading cause of global disability. However, for most people around the world, current neurological care is poor. In low-income countries, most individuals lack access to proper neurological care, and in high-income countries, distance and disability limit access. With the global proliferation of smartphones, teleneurology-the use of technology to provide neurological care and education remotely-has the potential to improve and increase access to care for billions of people. Telestroke has already fulfilled this promise, but teleneurology applications for chronic conditions are still in their infancy. Similarly, few studies have explored the capabilities of mobile technologies such as smartphones and wearable sensors, which can guide care by providing objective, frequent, real-world assessments of patients. In low-income settings, teleneurology can increase the capacity of local care systems through professional development, diagnostic support and consultative services. In high-income settings, teleneurology is likely to promote the expansion and migration of neurological care away from institutions, incorporate systems of asynchronous communication (such as e-mail), integrate clinicians with diverse skill sets and reach new populations. Inertia, outdated policies and social barriers-especially the digital divide-will slow this progress at considerable cost. However, a future increasingly will be possible in which neurological care can be accessed by anyone, anywhere. Here, we examine the emerging evidence regarding the benefits of teleneurology for chronic conditions, its role and risks in low-income countries and the promise of mobile technologies to measure disease status and deliver care. We conclude by discussing the future trends, barriers and timing for the adoption of teleneurology.  2018 Macmillan Publishers Limited, part of Springer Nature. All rights reserved.;
Natural language processing in mental health applications using non-clinical texts;Natural language processing (NLP) techniques can be used to make inferences about peoples' mental states from what they write on Facebook, Twitter and other social media. These inferences can then be used to create online pathways to direct people to health information and assistance and also to generate personalized interventions. Regrettably, the computational methods used to collect, process and utilize online writing data, as well as the evaluations of these techniques, are still dispersed in the literature. This paper provides a taxonomy of data sources and techniques that have been used for mental health support and intervention. Specifically, we review how social media and other data sources have been used to detect emotions and identify people who may be in need of psychological assistance;
Objective Assessment of Surgical Technical Skill and Competency in the Operating Room;"Training skillful and competent surgeons is critical to ensure high quality of care and to minimize disparities in access to effective care. Traditional models to train surgeons are being challenged by rapid advances in technology, an intensified patient-safety culture, and a need for value-driven health systems. Simultaneously, technological developments are enabling capture and analysis of large amounts of complex surgical data. These developments are motivating a ""surgical data science"" approach to objective computer-aided technical skill evaluation (OCASE-T) for scalable, accurate assessment";
A Comprehensive Survey of Blockchain: From Theory to IoT Applications and beyond;As an innovated and revolutionized technology, blockchain has been applied in many fields, such as cryptocurrency, food traceability, identity management, or even market prediction. To discover its great potential, both industry and academia have paid great attention to it and numerous researches have been conducted. Based on the literature and industry whitepapers, in this survey, we unroll and structure the blockchain related discoveries and scientific results in many aspects. Particularly, we classify blockchain technologies into four layers and carry out a comprehensive study on the consensus strategies, the network, and the applications of blockchain. Different blockchain applications are put into the corresponding categories based on the fields, especially in Internet of Things (IoT). When introducing each layer, we not only organize and summarize the related works, but also discuss the fundamental issues and future research directions. We hope this survey could shed some light on the research of blockchain and serve as a guide for further studies.  2014 IEEE.;Anonymity;
Anatomy of Threats to the Internet of Things;The world is resorting to the Internet of Things (IoT) for ease of control and monitoring of smart devices. The ubiquitous use of IoT ranges from industrial control systems (ICS) to e-Health, e-Commerce, smart cities, supply chain management, smart cars, cyber physical systems (CPS), and a lot more. Such reliance on IoT is resulting in a significant amount of data to be generated, collected, processed, and analyzed. The big data analytics is no doubt beneficial for business development. However, at the same time, numerous threats to the availability and privacy of the user data, message, and device integrity, the vulnerability of IoT devices to malware attacks and the risk of physical compromise of devices pose a significant danger to the sustenance of IoT. This paper thus endeavors to highlight most of the known threats at various layers of the IoT architecture with a focus on the anatomy of malware attacks. We present a detailed attack methodology adopted by some of the most successful malware attacks on IoT, including ICS and CPS. We also deduce an attack strategy of a distributed denial of service attack through IoT botnet followed by requisite security measures. In the end, we propose a composite guideline for the development of an IoT security framework based on industry best practices and also highlight lessons learned, pitfalls and some open research challenges.  1998-2012 IEEE.;attack methodology;
From machine learning to explainable AI;The success of statistical machine learning (ML) methods made the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) so popular again, after the last AI winter. Meanwhile deep learning approaches even exceed human performance in particular tasks. However, such approaches have some disadvantages besides of needing big quality data, much computational power and engineering effort;
Use of predictive algorithms in-home monitoring of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma: A systematic review;Major reported factors associated with the limited effectiveness of home telemonitoring interventions in chronic respiratory conditions include the lack of useful early predictors, poor patient compliance and the poor performance of conventional algorithms for detecting deteriorations. This article provides a systematic review of existing algorithms and the factors associated with their performance in detecting exacerbations and supporting clinical decisions in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. An electronic literature search in Medline, Scopus, Web of Science and Cochrane library was conducted to identify relevant articles published between 2005 and July 2015. A total of 20 studies (16 COPD, 4 asthma) that included research about the use of algorithms in telemonitoring interventions in asthma and COPD were selected. Differences on the applied definition of exacerbation, telemonitoring duration, acquired physiological signals and symptoms, type of technology deployed and algorithms used were found. Predictive models with good clinically reliability have yet to be defined, and are an important goal for the future development of telehealth in chronic respiratory conditions. New predictive models incorporating both symptoms and physiological signals are being tested in telemonitoring interventions with positive outcomes. However, the underpinning algorithms behind these models need be validated in larger samples of patients, for longer periods of time and with well-established protocols. In addition, further research is needed to identify novel predictors that enable the early detection of deteriorations, especially in COPD. Only then will telemonitoring achieve the aim of preventing hospital admissions, contributing to the reduction of health resource utilization and improving the quality of life of patients.  The Author(s) 2016.;Algorithms; pulmonary disease; telemedicine;" telemonitoring""";
Fog data analytics: A taxonomy and process model;Through the exponential growth of sensors and smart gadgets (collectively referred to as smart devices or Internet of Things (IoT) devices), significant amount of heterogeneous and multi-modal data, termed as Big Data (BD), is being generated. To deal with such BD, we require efficient and effective solutions such as data mining, analytics, and reduction to be deployed at the edge of fog devices on a cloud. Existing research and development efforts generally focus on performing BD analytics overlook the difficulty of facilitating fog data analytics (FDA). In this paper, we discuss the unique nature and complexity of fog data analytics. A detailed taxonomy for FDA is abstracted into a process model. The proposed model addresses various research challenges, such as accessibility, scalability, fog nodes communication, nodal collaboration, heterogeneity, reliability, and quality of service (QoS) requirements. To demonstrate the proposed process model, we present two case studies.  2018 Elsevier Ltd;Big data
Smartphone sensors for health monitoring and diagnosis;Over the past few decades, we have witnessed a dramatic rise in life expectancy owing to significant advances in medical science and technology, medicine as well as increased awareness about nutrition, education, and environmental and personal hygiene. Consequently, the elderly population in many countries are expected to rise rapidly in the coming years. A rapidly rising elderly demographics is expected to adversely affect the socioeconomic systems of many nations in terms of costs associated with their healthcare and wellbeing. In addition, diseases related to the cardiovascular system, eye, respiratory system, skin and mental health are widespread globally. However, most of these diseases can be avoided and/or properly managed through continuous monitoring. In order to enable continuous health monitoring as well as to serve growing healthcare needs;
Cognitive intelligence: Deep learning,  thinking,  and reasoning by brain-inspired systems;The theme of IEEE ICCI∗CC'16 on Cognitive Informatics (CI) and Cognitive Computing (CC) was on cognitive computers, big data cognition, and machine learning. CI and CC are a contemporary field not only for basic studies on the brain, computational intelligence theories, and denotational mathematics, but also for engineering applications in cognitive systems towards deep learning, deep thinking, and deep reasoning. This paper reports a set of position statements presented in the plenary panel (Part I) in IEEE ICCI∗CC'16 at Stanford University. The summary is contributed by invited panelists who are part of the world's renowned scholars in the transdisciplinary field of CI and CC. Copyright  2016, IGI Global.;"Applications,  Deep reasoning,  Deep thinking"""
Cloud Centric Authentication for Wearable Healthcare Monitoring System;Security and privacy are the major concerns in cloud computing as users have limited access on the stored data at the remote locations managed by different service providers. These become more challenging especially for the data generated from the wearable devices as it is highly sensitive and heterogeneous in nature. Most of the existing techniques reported in the literature are having high computation and communication costs and are vulnerable to various known attacks, which reduce their importance for applicability in real-world environment. Hence, in this paper, we propose a new cloud based user authentication scheme for secure authentication of medical data. After successful mutual authentication between a user and wearable sensor node, both establish a secret session key that is used for future secure communications. The extensively-used Real-Or-Random (ROR) model based formal security analysis and the broadly-accepted Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and Applications (AVISPA) tool based formal security verification show that the proposed scheme provides the session-key security and protects active attacks. The proposed scheme is also informally analyzed to show its resilience against other known attacks. Moreover, we have done a detailed comparative analysis for the communication and computation costs along with security and functionality features which proves its efficiency in comparison to the other existing schemes of its category.  2004-2012 IEEE.;authentication
Digital twin: Values,  challenges and enablers from a modeling perspective;Digital twin can be defined as a virtual representation of a physical asset enabled through data and simulators for real-time prediction, optimization, monitoring, controlling, and improved decision making. Recent advances in computational pipelines, multiphysics solvers, artificial intelligence, big data cybernetics, data processing and management tools bring the promise of digital twins and their impact on society closer to reality. Digital twinning is now an important and emerging trend in many applications. Also referred to as a computational megamodel, device shadow, mirrored system, avatar or a synchronized virtual prototype, there can be no doubt that a digital twin plays a transformative role not only in how we design and operate cyber-physical intelligent systems, but also in how we advance the modularity of multi-disciplinary systems to tackle fundamental barriers not addressed by the current, evolutionary modeling practices. In this work, we review the recent status of methodologies and techniques related to the construction of digital twins mostly from a modeling perspective. Our aim is to provide a detailed coverage of the current challenges and enabling technologies along with recommendations and reflections for various stakeholders.  2013 IEEE.;artificial intelligence
“Technology enabled Health” – Insights from twitter analytics with a socio-technical perspective;Technology had been used in health domain for various purposes such as for storing electronic health records;
Blockchain Applications in the Biomedical Domain: A Scoping Review;Blockchain is a distributed, immutable ledger technology introduced as the enabling mechanism to support cryptocurrencies. Blockchain solutions are currently being proposed to address diverse problems in different domains. This paper presents a scoping review of the scientific literature to map the current research area of blockchain applications in the biomedical domain. The goal is to identify biomedical problems treated with blockchain technology, the level of maturity of respective approaches, types of biomedical data considered, blockchain features and functionalities exploited and blockchain technology frameworks used. The study follows the PRISMA-ScR methodology. Literature search was conducted on August 2018 and the systematic selection process identified 47 research articles for detailed study. Our findings show that the field is still in its infancy, with the majority of studies in the conceptual or architectural design phase;
Smart Home-based IoT for Real-time and Secure Remote Health Monitoring of Triage and Priority System using Body Sensors: Multi-driven Systematic Review;The Internet of Things (IoT) has been identified in various applications across different domains, such as in the healthcare sector. IoT has also been recognised for its revolution in reshaping modern healthcare with aspiring wide range prospects, including economical, technological and social. This study aims to establish IoT-based smart home security solutions for real-time health monitoring technologies in telemedicine architecture. A multilayer taxonomy is driven and conducted in this study. In the first layer, a comprehensive analysis on telemedicine, which focuses on the client and server sides, shows that other studies associated with IoT-based smart home applications have several limitations that remain unaddressed. Particularly, remote patient monitoring in healthcare applications presents various facilities and benefits by adopting IoT-based smart home technologies without compromising the security requirements and potentially large number of risks. An extensive search is conducted to identify articles that handle these issues, related applications are comprehensively reviewed and a coherent taxonomy for these articles is established. A total number of (n = 3064) are gathered between 2007 and 2017 for most reliable databases, such as ScienceDirect, Web of Science and Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineer Xplore databases. Then, the articles based on IoT studies that are associated with telemedicine applications are filtered. Nine articles are selected and classified into two categories. The first category, which accounts for 22.22% (n = 2/9), includes surveys on telemedicine articles and their applications. The second category, which accounts for 77.78% (n = 7/9), includes articles on the client and server sides of telemedicine architecture. The collected studies reveal the essential requirement in constructing another taxonomy layer and review IoT-based smart home security studies. Therefore, IoT-based smart home security features are introduced and analysed in the second layer. The security of smart home design based on IoT applications is an aspect that represents a crucial matter for general occupants of smart homes, in which studies are required to provide a better solution with patient security, privacy protection and security of users’ entities from being stolen or compromised. Innovative technologies have dispersed limitations related to this matter. The existing gaps and trends in this area should be investigated to provide valuable visions for technical environments and researchers. Thus, 67 articles are obtained in the second layer of our taxonomy and are classified into six categories. In the first category, 25.37% (n = 17/67) of the articles focus on architecture design. In the second category, 17.91% (n = 12/67) includes security analysis articles that investigate the research status in the security area of IoT-based smart home applications. In the third category, 10.44% (n = 7/67) includes articles about security schemes. In the fourth category, 17.91% (n = 12/67) comprises security examination. In the fifth category, 13.43% (n = 9/67) analyses security protocols. In the final category, 14.92% (n = 10/67) analyses the security framework. Then, the identified basic characteristics of this emerging field are presented and provided in the following aspects. Open challenges experienced on the development of IoT-based smart home security are addressed to be adopted fully in telemedicine applications. Then, the requirements are provided to increase researcher’s interest in this study area. On this basis, a number of recommendations for different parties are described to provide insights on the next steps that should be considered to enhance the security of smart homes based on IoT. A map matching for both taxonomies is developed in this study to determine the novel risks and benefits of IoT-based smart home security for real-time remote health monitoring within client and server sides in telemedicine applications.  2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Automated home
Security,  performance,  and applications of smart contracts: A systematic survey;Blockchain is the promising technology of recent years, which has attracted remarkable attention in both academic studies and practical industrial applications. The smart contract is a programmable transaction that can perform a sophisticated task, execute automatically, and store on the blockchain. The smart contract is the key component of the blockchain, which has made blockchain a technology beyond the scope of the cryptocurrencies and applicable for a variety of applications such as healthcare, IoT, supply chain, digital identity, business process management, and more. Although in recent years the progress toward improving blockchain technology with the focus on the smart contract has been impressive, there is a lack of reviewing the smart contract topic. This paper systematically reviews the key concepts and proposes the direction of recent studies and developments regarding the smart contract. The research studies are presented in three main categories: 1) security methods and tools;
An Encrypted Image Retrieval Method Based on Harris Corner Optimization and LSH in Cloud Computing;The encrypted image retrieval in cloud computing is a key technology to realize the massive images of storage and management and images safety. In this paper, a novel feature extraction method for encrypted image retrieval is proposed. First, the improved Harris algorithm is used to extract the image features. Next, the Speeded-Up Robust Features algorithm and the Bag of Words model are applied to generate the feature vectors of each image. Then, Local Sensitive Hash algorithm is applied to construct the searchable index for the feature vectors. The chaotic encryption scheme is utilized to protect images and indexes security. Finally, secure similarity search is executed on the cloud server. The experimental results show that compared with the existing encryption retrieval schemes, the proposed retrieval scheme not only reduces the time consumption but also improves the image retrieval accuracy.  2013 IEEE.;Cloud computing
An analysis of social features associated with room sales of Airbnb;Lately, collaborative consumption has emerged as an important socio-economic model because of its economic and environmental impacts. Airbnb, an online hospitality rental service provider, is a fast growing company that utilizes rich social communications. In this paper, we aim to quantitatively characterize collaborative consumption behaviors in Airbnb. We collected and analyzed a total of 4,178 room data, and investigated which features are more strongly associated with room sales. Besides the well-recognized room features like price, minimum stay, and amenities, our result shows that social features such as the responsiveness of host, the count of Wish List, the number of reviews, and the membership seniority are significantly associated with room sales. On the other hand, some of the conventional social features such as overall rating and number of references turned out to be not so critical for room sales.;Airbnb
Biomedical informatics: Discovering knowledge in big data;"This book provides a broad overview of the topic Bioinformatics with focus on data, information and knowledge. From data acquisition and storage to visualization, ranging through privacy, regulatory and other practical and theoretical topics, the author touches several fundamental aspects of the innovative interface between Medical and Technology domains that is Biomedical Informatics. Each chapter starts by providing a useful inventory of definitions and commonly used acronyms for each topic and throughout the text, the reader finds several real-world examples, methodologies and ideas that complement the technical and theoretical background. This new edition includes new sections at the end of each chapter, called ""future outlook and research avenues,"" providing pointers to future challenges. At the beginning of each chapter a new section called ""key problems"", has been added, where the author discusses possible traps and unsolvable or major problems.  Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014. All rights are reserved.";
Systematic survey of big data and data mining in internet of things;In recent years, the Internet of Things (IoT) has emerged as a new opportunity. Thus, all devices such as smartphones, transportation facilities, public services, and home appliances are used as data creator devices. All the electronic devices around us help our daily life. Devices such as wrist watches, emergency alarms, and garage doors and home appliances such as refrigerators, microwaves, air conditioning, and water heaters are connected to an IoT network and controlled remotely. Methods such as big data and data mining can be used to improve the efficiency of IoT and storage challenges of a large data volume and the transmission, analysis, and processing of the data volume on the IoT. The aim of this study is to investigate the research done on IoT using big data as well as data mining methods to identify subjects that must be emphasized more in current and future research paths. This article tries to achieve the goal by following the conference and journal articles published on IoT-big data and also IoT-data mining areas between 2010 and August 2017. In order to examine these articles, the combination of Systematic Mapping and literature review was used to create an intended review article. In this research, 44 articles were studied. These articles are divided into three categories: Architecture & Platform, framework, and application. In this research, a summary of the methods used in the area of IoT-big data and IoT-data mining is presented in three categories to provide a starting point for researchers in the future.  2018 Elsevier B.V.;Big data
Spatial and temporal epidemiological analysis in the Big Data era;Concurrent with global economic development in the last 50 years, the opportunities for the spread of existing diseases and emergence of new infectious pathogens, have increased substantially. The activities associated with the enormously intensified global connectivity have resulted in large amounts of data being generated, which in turn provides opportunities for generating knowledge that will allow more effective management of animal and human health risks. This so-called Big Data has, more recently, been accompanied by the Internet of Things which highlights the increasing presence of a wide range of sensors, interconnected via the Internet. Analysis of this data needs to exploit its complexity, accommodate variation in data quality and should take advantage of its spatial and temporal dimensions, where available. Apart from the development of hardware technologies and networking/communication infrastructure, it is necessary to develop appropriate data management tools that make this data accessible for analysis. This includes relational databases, geographical information systems and most recently, cloud-based data storage such as Hadoop distributed file systems. While the development in analytical methodologies has not quite caught up with the data deluge, important advances have been made in a number of areas, including spatial and temporal data analysis where the spectrum of analytical methods ranges from visualisation and exploratory analysis, to modelling. While there used to be a primary focus on statistical science in terms of methodological development for data analysis, the newly emerged discipline of data science is a reflection of the challenges presented by the need to integrate diverse data sources and exploit them using novel data- and knowledge-driven modelling methods while simultaneously recognising the value of quantitative as well as qualitative analytical approaches. Machine learning regression methods, which are more robust and can handle large datasets faster than classical regression approaches, are now also used to analyse spatial and spatio-temporal data. Multi-criteria decision analysis methods have gained greater acceptance, due in part, to the need to increasingly combine data from diverse sources including published scientific information and expert opinion in an attempt to fill important knowledge gaps. The opportunities for more effective prevention, detection and control of animal health threats arising from these developments are immense, but not without risks given the different types, and much higher frequency, of biases associated with these data.  2015 Elsevier B.V.;Data science
Research Progress of Blockchain Technology and Its Application in Information Security [区块链技术及其在信息安全领域的研究进展];Blockchain is a distributed public ledger technology that originates from the digital cryptocurrency, bitcoin. Its development has attracted wide attention in industry and academia fields. Blockchain has the advantages of de-centralization, trustworthiness, anonymity and immutability. It breaks through the limitation of traditional center-based technology and has broad development prospect. This paper introduces the research progress of blockchain technology and its application in the field of information security. Firstly, the basic theory and model of blockchain are introduced from five aspects: Basic framework, key technology, technical feature, and application mode and area. Secondly, from the perspective of current research situation of blockchain in the field of information security, this paper summarizes the research progress of blockchain in authentication technology, access control technology and data protection technology, and compares the characteristics of various researches. Finally, the application challenges of blockchain technology are analyzed, and the development outlook of blockchain in the field of information security is highlighted. This study intends to provide certain reference value for future research work.  Copyright 2018, Institute of Software, the Chinese Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.;Access control
A survey of data semantization in internet of things;With the development of Internet of Things (IoT), more and more sensors, actuators and mobile devices have been deployed into our daily lives. The result is that tremendous data are produced and it is urgent to dig out hidden information behind these volumous data. However, IoT data generated by multi-modal sensors or devices show great differences in formats, domains and types, which poses challenges for machines to process and understand. Therefore, adding semantics to Internet of Things becomes an overwhelming tendency. This paper provides a systematic review of data semantization in IoT, including its backgrounds, processing flows, prevalent techniques, applications, existing challenges and open issues. It surveys development status of adding semantics to IoT data, mainly referring to sensor data and points out current issues and challenges that are worth further study.  2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Data semantization
Design Challenges of Multi-UAV Systems in Cyber-Physical Applications: A Comprehensive Survey and Future Directions;Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have recently rapidly grown to facilitate a wide range of innovative applications that can fundamentally change the way cyber-physical systems (CPSs) are designed. CPSs are a modern generation of systems with synergic cooperation between computational and physical potentials that can interact with humans through several new mechanisms. The main advantages of using UAVs in CPS application is their exceptional features, including their mobility, dynamism, effortless deployment, adaptive altitude, agility, adjustability, and effective appraisal of real-world functions anytime and anywhere. Furthermore, from the technology perspective, UAVs are predicted to be a vital element of the development of advanced CPSs. Therefore, in this survey, we aim to pinpoint the most fundamental and important design challenges of multi-UAV systems for CPS applications. We highlight key and versatile aspects that span the coverage and tracking of targets and infrastructure objects, energy-efficient navigation, and image analysis using machine learning for fine-grained CPS applications. Key prototypes and testbeds are also investigated to show how these practical technologies can facilitate CPS applications. We present and propose state-of-the-art algorithms to address design challenges with both quantitative and qualitative methods and map these challenges with important CPS applications to draw insightful conclusions on the challenges of each application. Finally, we summarize potential new directions and ideas that could shape future research in these areas.  1998-2012 IEEE.;cyber-physical applications
View-invariant gait recognition based on kinect skeleton feature;Gait recognition is a popular remote biometric identification technology. Its robustness against view variation is one of the challenges in the field of gait recognition. In this paper, the second-generation Kinect (2G–Kinect) is used as a tool to build a 3D–skeleton-based gait dataset, which includes both 2D silhouette images captured by 2G–Kinect and their corresponding 3D coordinates of skeleton joints. Given this dataset, a human walking model is constructed. Referring to the walking model, the length of some specific skeletons is selected as the static features, and the angles of swing limbs as the dynamic features, which are verified to be view-invariant. In addition, the gait recognition abilities of the static and dynamic features are investigated respectively. Given the investigation, a view-invariant gait recognition scheme is proposed based on the matching-level-fusion of the static and dynamic features, and the nearest neighbor (NN) method is used for recognition. Comparison between the existing Kinect-based gait recognition method and the proposed one on different datasets show that the proposed one has better recognition performance.  2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;3D Joint Information
A survey on food computing;Food is essential for human life and it is fundamental to the human experience. Food-related study may support multifarious applications and services, such as guiding human behavior, improving human health, and understanding the culinary culture. With the rapid development of social networks, mobile networks, and Internet of Things (IoT), people commonly upload, share, and record food images, recipes, cooking videos, and food diaries, leading to large-scale food data. Large-scale food data offers rich knowledge about food and can help tackle many central issues of human society. Therefore, it is time to group several disparate issues related to food computing. Food computing acquires and analyzes heterogenous food data from different sources for perception, recognition, retrieval, recommendation, and monitoring of food. In food computing, computational approaches are applied to address food-related issues in medicine, biology, gastronomy, and agronomy. Both large-scale food data and recent breakthroughs in computer science are transforming the way we analyze food data. Therefore, a series of works has been conducted in the food area, targeting different food-oriented tasks and applications. However, there are very few systematic reviews that shape this area well and provide a comprehensive and in-depth summary of current efforts or detail open problems in this area. In this article, we formalize food computing and present such a comprehensive overview of various emerging concepts, methods, and tasks. We summarize key challenges and future directions ahead for food computing. This is the first comprehensive survey that targets the study of computing technology for the food area and also offers a collection of research studies and technologies to benefit researchers and practitioners working in different food-related fields.  2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Food computing
A novel medical blockchain model for drug supply chain integrity management in a smart hospital;At present, in pharmacology one of the most serious problems is counterfeit drugs. The Health Research Funding organization reported that in developing countries, nearly 10-30% of the drugs are fake. Counterfeiting is not the main issue itself, but, rather, the fact that, as compared to traditional drugs, these counterfeit drugs produce different side effects to human health. According to WHO, around 30% of the total medicine sold in Africa, Asia, and Latin America is counterfeit. This is the major worldwide problem, and the situation is worse in developing countries, where one out of every 10 medicines are either fake or do not follow drug regulations. The rise of Internet pharmacies has made it more difficult to standardize drug safety. It is difficult to detect counterfeits because these drugs pass through different complex distributed networks, thus forming opportunities for counterfeits to enter the authentic supply chain. The safety of the pharmaceutical supply chain has become a major concern for public health, which is a collective process. In this paper, we propose a novel drug supply chain management using Hyperledger Fabric based on blockchain technology to handle secure drug supply chain records. The proposed system solves this problem by conducting drug record transactions on a blockchain to create a smart healthcare ecosystem with a drug supply chain. A smart contract is launched to give time-limited access to electronic drug records and also patient electronic health records. We also carried out a number of experiments in order to demonstrate the usability and efficiency of the designed platform. Finally, we used Hyperledger Caliper as a benchmarking tool to conduct the performance of the designed system in terms of transactions per second, transaction latency, and resource utilization.  2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Blockchain
Privacy-preserving matching of similar patients;The identification of similar entities represented by records in different databases has drawn considerable attention in many application areas, including in the health domain. One important type of entity matching application that is vital for quality healthcare analytics is the identification of similar patients, known as similar patient matching. A key component of identifying similar records is the calculation of similarity of the values in attributes (fields) between these records. Due to increasing privacy and confidentiality concerns, using the actual attribute values of patient records to identify similar records across different organizations is becoming non-trivial because the attributes in such records often contain highly sensitive information such as personal and medical details of patients. Therefore, the matching needs to be based on masked (encoded) values while being effective and efficient to allow matching of large databases.Bloom filter encoding has widely been used as an efficient masking technique for privacy-preserving matching of string and categorical values. However, no work on Bloom filter-based masking of numerical data, such as integer (e.g. age), floating point (e.g. body mass index), and modulus (numbers wrap around upon reaching a certain value, e.g. date and time), which are commonly required in the health domain, has been presented in the literature. We propose a framework with novel methods for masking numerical data using Bloom filters, thereby facilitating the calculation of similarities between records. We conduct an empirical study on publicly available real-world datasets which shows that our framework provides efficient masking and achieves similar matching accuracy compared to the matching of actual unencoded patient records.  2015 Elsevier Inc.;Approximate matching
Process mining techniques and applications – A systematic mapping study;Process mining is a growing and promising study area focused on understanding processes and to help capture the more significant findings during real execution rather than, those methods that, only observed idealized process model. The objective of this article is to map the active research topics of process mining and their main publishers by country, periodicals, and conferences. We also extract the reported application studies and classify these by exploration domains or industry segments that are taking advantage of this technique. The applied research method was systematic mapping, which began with 3713 articles. After applying the exclusion criteria, 1278 articles were selected for review. In this article, an overview regarding process mining is presented, the main research topics are identified, followed by identification of the most applied process mining algorithms, and finally application domains among different business segments are reported on. It is possible to observe that the most active research topics are associated with the process discovery algorithms, followed by conformance checking, and architecture and tools improvements. In application domains, the segments with major case studies are healthcare followed by information and communication technology, manufacturing, education, finance, and logistics.  2019 Elsevier Ltd;Process mining
Security for 5G and beyond;The development of the fifth generation (5G) wireless networks is gaining momentum to connect almost all aspects of life through the network with much higher speed, very low latency and ubiquitous connectivity. Due to its crucial role in our lives, the network must secure its users, components, and services. The security threat landscape of 5G has grown enormously due to the unprecedented increase in types of services and in the number of devices. Therefore, security solutions if not developed yet must be envisioned already to cope with diverse threats on various services, novel technologies, and increased user information accessible by the network. This paper outlines the 5G network threat landscape, the security vulnerabilities in the new technological concepts that will be adopted by 5G, and provides either solutions to those threats or future directions to cope with those security challenges. We also provide a brief outline of the post-5G cellular technologies and their security vulnerabilities which is referred to as future generations (XG) in this paper. In brief, this paper highlights the present and future security challenges in wireless networks, mainly in 5G, and future directions to secure wireless networks beyond 5G.  1998-2012 IEEE.;5G
BLA: Blockchain-assisted lightweight anonymous authentication for distributed vehicular fog services;As modern vehicles and distributed fog services advance apace, vehicular fog services (VFSs) are being expected to span across multiple geo-distributed datacenters, which inevitably leads to cross-datacenter authentication. Traditional cross-datacenter authentication models are not suitable for the scenario of high-speed moving vehicles accessing VFS, because these models either ignored user privacy or ignored the delay requirement of driving vehicles. This paper proposes a blockchain-assisted lightweight anonymous authentication (BLA) mechanism for distributed VFS, which is provisioned to driving vehicles. BLA can achieve the following advantages: 1) realizing a flexible cross-datacenter authentication, in which a vehicle can decide whether to be reauthenticated or not when it enters a new vehicular fog datacenter;
Multi-Modality Behavioral Influence Analysis for Personalized Recommendations in Health Social Media Environment;Recently, health social media have engaged more and more people to share their personal feelings, opinions, and experience in the context of health informatics, which has drawn increasing attention from both academia and industry. In this paper, we focus on the behavioral influence analysis based on heterogeneous health data generated in social media environments. An integrated deep neural network (DNN)-based learning model is designed to analyze and describe the latent behavioral influence hidden across multiple modalities, in which a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based framework is used to extract the time-series features within a certain social context. The learned features based on cross-modality influence analysis are then trained in a SoftMax classifier, which can result in a restructured representation of high-level features for online physician rating and classification in a data-driven way. Finally, two algorithms within two representative application scenarios are developed to provide patients with personalized recommendations in health social media environments. Experiments using the real world data demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed model and method.  2014 IEEE.;Behavioral analysis
Big data handling mechanisms in the healthcare applications: A comprehensive and systematic literature review;Healthcare provides many services such as diagnosing, treatment, prevention of diseases, illnesses, injuries, and other physical and mental disorders. Large-scale distributed data processing applications in healthcare as a basic concept operates on large amounts of data. Therefore, big data application functions are the main part of healthcare operations, but there was not any comprehensive and systematic survey about studying and evaluating the important techniques in this field. Therefore, this paper aims at providing the comprehensive, detailed, and systematic study of the state-of-the-art mechanisms in the big data related to healthcare applications in five categories, including machine learning, cloud-based, heuristic-based, agent-based, and hybrid mechanisms. Also, this paper displayed a systematic literature review (SLR) of the big data applications in the healthcare literature up to the end of 2016. Initially, 205 papers were identified, but a paper selection process reduced the number of papers to 29 important studies.  2018 Elsevier Inc.;Agent
Adaptive monitoring system for e-health smart homes;Existing e-health monitoring systems mainly operate in isolation from the requirements of modern healthcare institutions. They do not include optimized techniques which learn the patient's behavior for predicting future important changes. We propose a new context-aware e-health monitoring system targeted at the elderly and isolated persons living alone. It monitors daily living activities and evaluates dependency based on geriatric scales used by health professionals. Its adaptive framework collects only relevant contextual data for evaluating health status. By monitoring the achievement of daily activities, the system learns the behavior of the monitored person. It is then able to detect risky behavioral changes by using our novel forecasting approach based on the extension of the Grey model GM(1, 1). In order to evaluate our system, we use a Markovian model built for generating long term realistic scenarios. By simulation, we compare the performances of our system to traditional monitoring approaches with various synthetically generated scenarios and profiles. Results show that with minimal sensing and data collection, our system accurately evaluates a person's dependency, predicts its health condition, and detects abnormal situations while preserving system resources.  2017 Elsevier B.V.;Abnormal behavior detection
Building a validation measure for activity-based transportation models based on mobile phone data;Activity-based micro-simulation transportation models typically predict 24-h activity-travel sequences for each individual in a study area. These sequences serve as a key input for travel demand analysis and forecasting in the region. However, despite their importance, the lack of a reliable benchmark to evaluate the generated sequences has hampered further development and application of the models. With the wide deployment of mobile phone devices today, we explore the possibility of using the travel behavioral information derived from mobile phone data to build such a validation measure. Our investigation consists of three steps. First, the daily trajectory of locations, where a user performed activities, is constructed from the mobile phone records. To account for the discrepancy between the stops revealed by the call data and the real location traces that the user has made, the daily trajectories are then transformed into actual travel sequences. Finally, all the derived sequences are classified into typical activity-travel patterns which, in combination with their relative frequencies, define an activity-travel profile. The established profile characterizes the current activity-travel behavior in the study area, and can thus be used as a benchmark for the assessment of the activity-based transportation models. By comparing the activity-travel profiles derived from the call data with statistics that stem from traditional activity-travel surveys, the validation potential is demonstrated. In addition, a sensitivity analysis is carried out to assess how the results are affected by the different parameter settings defined in the profiling process.  2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.;Activity-based transportation models
A Survey of Machine and Deep Learning Methods for Internet of Things (IoT) Security;The Internet of Things (IoT) integrates billions of smart devices that can communicate with one another with minimal human intervention. IoT is one of the fastest developing fields in the history of computing, with an estimated 50 billion devices by the end of 2020. However, the crosscutting nature of IoT systems and the multidisciplinary components involved in the deployment of such systems have introduced new security challenges. Implementing security measures, such as encryption, authentication, access control, network and application security for IoT devices and their inherent vulnerabilities is ineffective. Therefore, existing security methods should be enhanced to effectively secure the IoT ecosystem. Machine learning and deep learning (ML/DL) have advanced considerably over the last few years, and machine intelligence has transitioned from laboratory novelty to practical machinery in several important applications. Consequently, ML/DL methods are important in transforming the security of IoT systems from merely facilitating secure communication between devices to security-based intelligence systems. The goal of this work is to provide a comprehensive survey of ML methods and recent advances in DL methods that can be used to develop enhanced security methods for IoT systems. IoT security threats that are related to inherent or newly introduced threats are presented, and various potential IoT system attack surfaces and the possible threats related to each surface are discussed. We then thoroughly review ML/DL methods for IoT security and present the opportunities, advantages and shortcomings of each method. We discuss the opportunities and challenges involved in applying ML/DL to IoT security. These opportunities and challenges can serve as potential future research directions.  1998-2012 IEEE.;Deep learning
Smart Contract Privacy Protection Using AI in Cyber-Physical Systems: Tools,  Techniques and Challenges;Applications of Blockchain (BC) technology and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) are increasing exponentially. However, framing resilient and correct smart contracts (SCs) for these smart application is a quite challenging task because of the complexity associated with them. SC is modernizing the traditional industrial, technical, and business processes. It is self-executable, self-verifiable, and embedded into the BC that eliminates the need for trusted third-party systems, which ultimately saves administration as well as service costs. It also improves system efficiency and reduces the associated security risks. However, SCs are well encouraging the new technological reforms in Industry 4.0, but still, various security and privacy challenges need to be addressed. In this paper, a survey on SC security vulnerabilities in the software code that can be easily hacked by a malicious user or may compromise the entire BC network is presented. As per the literature, the challenges related to SC security and privacy are not explored much by the authors around the world. From the existing proposals, it has been observed that designing a complex SCs cannot mitigate its privacy and security issues. So, this paper investigates various Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques and tools for SC privacy protection. Then, open issues and challenges for AI-based SC are analyzed. Finally, a case study of retail marketing is presented, which uses AI and SC to preserve its security and privacy.  2013 IEEE.;artificial intelligence
Lightweight Fine-Grained Search over Encrypted Data in Fog Computing;Fog computing, as an extension of cloud computing, outsources the encrypted sensitive data to multiple fog nodes on the edge of Internet of Things (IoT) to decrease latency and network congestion. However, the existing ciphertext retrieval schemes rarely focus on the fog computing environment and most of them still impose high computational and storage overhead on resource-limited end users. In this paper, we first present a Lightweight Fine-Grained ciphertexts Search (LFGS) system in fog computing by extending Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-Based Encryption (CP-ABE) and Searchable Encryption (SE) technologies, which can achieve fine-grained access control and keyword search simultaneously. The LFGS can shift partial computational and storage overhead from end users to chosen fog nodes. Furthermore, the basic LFGS system is improved to support conjunctive keyword search and attribute update to avoid returning irrelevant search results and illegal accesses. The formal security analysis shows that the LFGS system can resist Chosen-Keyword Attack (CKA) and Chosen-Plaintext Attack (CPA), and the simulation using a real-world dataset demonstrates that the LFGS system is efficient and feasible in practice.  2019 IEEE.;attribute update
The ethics of computing: A survey of the computing-oriented literature;Computing technologies and artifacts are increasingly integrated intomost aspects of our professional, social, and private lives. One consequence of this growing ubiquity of computing is that it can have significant ethical implications that computing professionals need to be aware of. The relationship between ethics and computing has long been discussed. However, this is the first comprehensive survey of the mainstream academic literature of the topic. Based on a detailed qualitative analysis of the literature, the article discusses ethical issues, technologies that they are related to, and ethical theories, as well as the methodologies that the literature employs, its academic contribution, and resulting recommendations. The article discusses general trends and argues that the time has come for a transition to responsible research and innovation to ensure that ethical reflection of computing has practical and manifest consequences.;Computer ethics
Ethics of artificial intelligence in radiology: Summary of the joint European and North American multisociety statement;This is a condensed summary of an international multisociety statement on ethics of artificial intelligence (AI) in radiology produced by the ACR, European Society of Radiology, RSNA, Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine, European Society of Medical Imaging Informatics, Canadian Association of Radiologists, and American Association of Physicists in Medicine. AI has great potential to increase efficiency and accuracy throughout radiology, but it also carries inherent pitfalls and biases. Widespread use of AI-based intelligent and autonomous systems in radiology can increase the risk of systemic errors with high consequence and highlights complex ethical and societal issues. Currently, there is little experience using AI for patient care in diverse clinical settings. Extensive research is needed to understand how to best deploy AI in clinical practice. This statement highlights our consensus that ethical use of AI in radiology should promote well-being, minimize harm, and ensure that the benefits and harms are distributed among stakeholders in a just manner. We believe AI should respect human rights and freedoms, including dignity and privacy. It should be designed for maximum transparency and dependability. Ultimate responsibility and accountability for AI remains with its human designers and operators for the foreseeable future. The radiology community should start now to develop codes of ethics and practice for AI that promote any use that helps patients and the common good and should block use of radiology data and algorithms for financial gain without those two attributes.  2019 Radiological Society of North America Inc.. All rights reserved.;
Data-driven modeling and prediction of blood glucose dynamics: Machine learning applications in type 1 diabetes;Background: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a metabolic disorder that causes abnormal blood glucose (BG) regulation that might result in short and long-term health complications and even death if not properly managed. Currently, there is no cure for diabetes. However, self-management of the disease, especially keeping BG in the recommended range, is central to the treatment. This includes actively tracking BG levels and managing physical activity, diet, and insulin intake. The recent advancements in diabetes technologies and self-management applications have made it easier for patients to have more access to relevant data. In this regard, the development of an artificial pancreas (a closed-loop system), personalized decision systems, and BG event alarms are becoming more apparent than ever. Techniques such as predicting BG (modeling of a personalized profile), and modeling BG dynamics are central to the development of these diabetes management technologies. The increased availability of sufficient patient historical data has paved the way for the introduction of machine learning and its application for intelligent and improved systems for diabetes management. The capability of machine learning to solve complex tasks with dynamic environment and knowledge has contributed to its success in diabetes research. Motivation: Recently, machine learning and data mining have become popular, with their expanding application in diabetes research and within BG prediction services in particular. Despite the increasing and expanding popularity of machine learning applications in BG prediction services, updated reviews that map and materialize the current trends in modeling options and strategies are lacking within the context of BG prediction (modeling of personalized profile) in type 1 diabetes. Objective: The objective of this review is to develop a compact guide regarding modeling options and strategies of machine learning and a hybrid system focusing on the prediction of BG dynamics in type 1 diabetes. The review covers machine learning approaches pertinent to the controller of an artificial pancreas (closed-loop systems), modeling of personalized profiles, personalized decision support systems, and BG alarm event applications. Generally, the review will identify, assess, analyze, and discuss the current trends of machine learning applications within these contexts. Method: A rigorous literature review was conducted between August 2017 and February 2018 through various online databases, including Google Scholar, PubMed, ScienceDirect, and others. Additionally, peer-reviewed journals and articles were considered. Relevant studies were first identified by reviewing the title, keywords, and abstracts as preliminary filters with our selection criteria, and then we reviewed the full texts of the articles that were found relevant. Information from the selected literature was extracted based on predefined categories, which were based on previous research and further elaborated through brainstorming among the authors. Results: The initial search was done by analyzing the title, abstract, and keywords. A total of 624 papers were retrieved from DBLP Computer Science (25), Diabetes Technology and Therapeutics (31), Google Scholar (193), IEEE (267), Journal of Diabetes Science and Technology (31), PubMed/Medline (27), and ScienceDirect (50). After removing duplicates from the list, 417 records remained. Then, we independently assessed and screened the articles based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria, which eliminated another 204 papers, leaving 213 relevant papers. After a full-text assessment, 55 articles were left, which were critically analyzed. The inter-rater agreement was measured using a Cohen Kappa test, and disagreements were resolved through discussion. Conclusion: Due to the complexity of BG dynamics, it remains difficult to achieve a universal model that produces an accurate prediction in every circumstance (i.e., hypo/eu/hyperglycemia events). Recently, machine learning techniques have received wider attention and increased popularity in diabetes research in general and BG prediction in particular, coupled with the ever-growing availability of a self-collected health data. The state-of-the-art demonstrates that various machine learning techniques have been tested to predict BG, such as recurrent neural networks, feed-forward neural networks, support vector machines, self-organizing maps, the Gaussian process, genetic algorithm and programs, deep neural networks, and others, using various group of input parameters and training algorithms. The main limitation of the current approaches is the lack of a well-defined approach to estimate carbohydrate intake, which is mainly done manually by individual users and is prone to an error that can severely affect the predictive performance. Moreover, a universal approach has not been established to estimate and quantify the approximate effect of physical activities, stress, and infections on the BG level. No researchers have assessed model predictive performance during stress and infection incidences in a free-living condition, which should be considered in future studies. Furthermore, a little has been done regarding model portability that can capture inter- and intra-variability among patients. It seems that the effect of time lags between the CGM readings and the actual BG levels is not well covered. However, in general, we foresee that these developments might foster the advancement of next-generation BG prediction algorithms, which will make a great contribution in the effort to develop the long–awaited, so-called artificial pancreas (a closed-loop system).  2019 Elsevier B.V.;Blood glucose dynamics
A Review on the Role of Nano-Communication in Future Healthcare Systems: A Big Data Analytics Perspective;This paper presents a first-time review of the open literature focused on the significance of big data generated within nano-sensors and nano-communication networks intended for the future healthcare and biomedical applications. It is aimed toward the development of modern smart healthcare systems enabled with P4, i.e., predictive, preventive, personalized, and participatory capabilities to perform diagnostics, monitoring, and treatment. The analytical capabilities that can be produced from the substantial amount of data gathered in such networks will aid in exploiting the practical intelligence and learning capabilities that could be further integrated with conventional medical and health data leading to more efficient decision making. We have also proposed a big data analytics framework for gathering intelligence, form the healthcare big data, required by futuristic smart healthcare to address relevant problems and exploit possible opportunities in the future applications. Finally, the open challenges, the future directions for researchers in the evolving healthcare domain, are presented.  2013 IEEE.;big data analytics
Combination of near-infrared and thermal imaging techniques for the remote and simultaneous measurements of breathing and heart rates under sleep situation;To achieve the simultaneous and unobtrusive breathing rate (BR) and heart rate (HR) measurements during nighttime, we leverage a far-infrared imager and an infrared camera equipped with IR-Cut lens and an infrared lighting array to develop a dual-camera imaging system. A custom-built cascade face classifier, containing the conventional Adaboost model and fully convolutional network trained by 32K images, was used to detect the face region in registered infrared images. The region of interest (ROI) inclusive of mouth and nose regions was afterwards confirmed by the discriminative regression and coordinate conversions of three selected landmarks. Subsequently, a tracking algorithm based on spa-tio-temporal context learning was applied for following the ROI in thermal video, and the raw signal was synchronously extracted. Finally, a custom-made time-domain signal analysis approach was developed for the determinations of BR and HR. A dual-mode sleep video database, including the videos obtained under environment where illumination intensity ranged from 0 to 3 Lux, was constructed to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed system and algorithms. In linear regression analysis, the determination coefficient (R2) of 0.831 had been observed for the measured BR and reference BR, and this value was 0.933 for HR measurement. In addition, the Bland-Altman plots of BR and HR demonstrated that almost all the data points located within their own 95% limits of agreement. Consequently, the overall performance of the proposed technique is acceptable for BR and HR estimations during nighttime.  2018 Hu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.;
Cloud based healthcare application architecture and electronic medical record mining: An integrated approach to improve healthcare system;Healthcare system can be enhanced vastly with the use of modern information technology. Still now in underdeveloped and developing countries, traditional paper based system is being used in healthcare. Although very few organizations use computer based system, they could not establish a ubiquitous network among patients, physicians and government. Cloud computing is the emerging technology which can be used to develop a heterogeneous network to improve the system. In this article, a three tier cloud based application 'eHealth Cloud' has been developed which will involve different parties to improve old-fashioned healthcare system. RIA (Rich Internet Application) based client, SimpleDB based server and a logic layer have been designed to build an easily accessible network. By using the 'eHealth Cloud', enormous electronic medical record (EMR) will be stored everyday. This huge size of data can lead us with new research opportunities. Data mining from the large amount of EMR has been proposed. The process of data mining, a standard for exchanging data and a mining model is described. Finally, the challenges and future research options are directed.  2014 IEEE.;Cloud computing
IoT-Based Wireless Polysomnography Intelligent System for Sleep Monitoring;Polysomnography (PSG) is considered the gold standard in the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The diagnosis of OSA requires an overnight sleep experiment in a laboratory. However, due to limitations in relation to the number of labs and beds available, patients often need to wait a long time before being diagnosed and eventually treated. In addition, the unfamiliar environment and restricted mobility when a patient is being tested with a polysomnogram may disturb their sleep, resulting in an incomplete or corrupted test. Therefore, it is posed that a PSG conducted in the patient's home would be more reliable and convenient. The Internet of Things (IoT) plays a vital role in the e-Health system. In this paper, we implement an IoT-based wireless polysomnography system for sleep monitoring, which utilizes a battery-powered, miniature, wireless, portable, and multipurpose recorder. A Java-based PSG recording program in the personal computer is designed to save several bio-signals and transfer them into the European data format. These PSG records can be used to determine a patient's sleep stages and diagnose OSA. This system is portable, lightweight, and has low power-consumption. To demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed PSG system, a comparison was made between the standard PSG-Alice 5 Diagnostic Sleep System and the proposed system. Several healthy volunteer patients participated in the PSG experiment and were monitored by both the standard PSG-Alice 5 Diagnostic Sleep System and the proposed system simultaneously, under the supervision of specialists at the Sleep Laboratory in Taipei Veteran General Hospital. A comparison of the results of the time-domain waveform and sleep stage of the two systems shows that the proposed system is reliable and can be applied in practice. The proposed system can facilitate the long-Term tracing and research of personal sleep monitoring at home.  2013 IEEE.;Internet of Things
An intelligent healthcare monitoring framework using wearable sensors and social networking data;Wearable sensors and social networking platforms play a key role in providing a new method to collect patient data for efficient healthcare monitoring. However, continuous patient monitoring using wearable sensors generates a large amount of healthcare data. In addition, the user-generated healthcare data on social networking sites come in large volumes and are unstructured. The existing healthcare monitoring systems are not efficient at extracting valuable information from sensors and social networking data, and they have difficulty analyzing it effectively. On top of that, the traditional machine learning approaches are not enough to process healthcare big data for abnormality prediction. Therefore, a novel healthcare monitoring framework based on the cloud environment and a big data analytics engine is proposed to precisely store and analyze healthcare data, and to improve the classification accuracy. The proposed big data analytics engine is based on data mining techniques, ontologies, and bidirectional long short-term memory (Bi-LSTM). Data mining techniques efficiently preprocess the healthcare data and reduce the dimensionality of the data. The proposed ontologies provide semantic knowledge about entities and aspects, and their relations in the domains of diabetes and blood pressure (BP). Bi-LSTM correctly classifies the healthcare data to predict drug side effects and abnormal conditions in patients. Also, the proposed system classifies the patients’ health condition using their healthcare data related to diabetes, BP, mental health, and drug reviews. This framework is developed employing the Protégé Web Ontology Language tool with Java. The results show that the proposed model precisely handles heterogeneous data and improves the accuracy of health condition classification and drug side effect predictions.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;Big data analysis
A Systematic Review for Enabling of Develop a Blockchain Technology in Healthcare Application: Taxonomy,  Substantially Analysis, Motivations,  Challenges,  Recommendations and Future Direction;Blockchain in healthcare applications requires robust security and privacy mechanism for high-level authentication, interoperability and medical records sharing to comply with the strict legal requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. Blockchain technology in the healthcare industry has received considerable research attention in recent years. This study conducts a review to substantially analyse and map the research landscape of current technologies, mainly the use of blockchain in healthcare applications, into a coherent taxonomy. The present study systematically searches all relevant research articles on blockchain in healthcare applications in three accessible databases, namely, ScienceDirect, IEEE and Web of Science, by using the defined keywords ‘blockchain’, ‘healthcare’ and ‘electronic health records’ and their variations. The final set of collected articles related to the use of blockchain in healthcare application is divided into three categories. The first category includes articles (i.e. 43/58 scientific articles) that attempted to develop and design healthcare applications integrating blockchain, particularly those on new architecture, system designs, framework, scheme, model, platform, approach, protocol and algorithm. The second category includes studies (i.e., 6/58 scientific articles) that attempted to evaluate and analyse the adoption of blockchain in the healthcare system. Finally, the third category comprises review and survey articles (i.e., 6/58 scientific articles) related to the integration of blockchain into healthcare applications. The final articles for review are discussed on the basis of five aspects: (1) year of publication, (2) nationality of authors, (3) publishing house or journal, (4) purpose of using blockchain in health applications and the corresponding contributions and (5) problem types and proposed solutions. Additionally, this study provides identified motivations, open challenges and recommendations on the use of blockchain in healthcare applications. The current research contributes to the literature by providing a detailed review of feasible alternatives and identifying the research gaps. Accordingly, researchers and developers are provided with appealing opportunities to further develop decentralised healthcare applications through a comprehensive discussion of about the importance of blockchain and its integration into various healthcare applications.  2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Blockchain technology
Clinical text mining: Secondary use of electronic patient records;This open access book describes the results of natural language processing and machine learning methods applied to clinical text from electronic patient records. It is divided into twelve chapters. Chapters 1-4 discuss the history and background of the original paper-based patient records, their purpose, and how they are written and structured. These initial chapters do not require any technical or medical background knowledge. The remaining eight chapters are more technical in nature and describe various medical classifications and terminologies such as ICD diagnosis codes, SNOMED CT, MeSH, UMLS, and ATC. Chapters 5-10 cover basic tools for natural language processing and information retrieval, and how to apply them to clinical text. The difference between rule-based and machine learning-based methods, as well as between supervised and unsupervised machine learning methods, are also explained. Next, ethical concerns regarding the use of sensitive patient records for research purposes are discussed, including methods for de-identifying electronic patient records and safely storing patient records. The book's closing chapters present a number of applications in clinical text mining and summarise the lessons learned from the previous chapters. The book provides a comprehensive overview of technical issues arising in clinical text mining, and offers a valuable guide for advanced students in health informatics, computational linguistics, and information retrieval, and for researchers entering these fields.  The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s) 2018.. All rights reserved.;
Future of hypertension: The need for transformation;[No abstract available];
Privacy-Preserving Solutions for Blockchain: Review and Challenges;Blockchains offer a decentralized, immutable and verifiable ledger that can record transactions of digital assets, provoking a radical change in several innovative scenarios, such as smart cities, eHealth or eGovernment. However, blockchains are subject to different scalability, security and potential privacy issues, such as transaction linkability, crypto-keys management (e.g. recovery), on-chain data privacy, or compliance with privacy regulations (e.g. GDPR). To deal with these challenges, novel privacy-preserving solutions for blockchain based on crypto-privacy techniques are emerging to empower users with mechanisms to become anonymous and take control of their personal data during their digital transactions of any kind in the ledger, following a Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) model. In this sense, this paper performs a systematic review of the current state of the art on privacy-preserving research solutions and mechanisms in blockchain, as well as the main associated privacy challenges in this promising and disrupting technology. The survey covers privacy techniques in public and permissionless blockchains, e.g. Bitcoin and Ethereum, as well as privacy-preserving research proposals and solutions in permissioned and private blockchains. Diverse blockchain scenarios are analyzed, encompassing, eGovernment, eHealth, cryptocurrencies, Smart cities, and Cooperative ITS.  2013 IEEE.;bitcoin
Process mining in oncology: A literature review;Process mining, an emerging data analytics method, has been used effectively in various healthcare contexts including oncology, the study of cancer. Cancer is a complex disease with many complicated care requirements and there is an urgent need to improve the cost and clinical effectiveness of cancer care pathways. Process mining of the e-health records of cancer patients may play an important future role and this paper presents a literature review of process mining in oncology as a contribution to this research. The search produced 758 articles which were manually reviewed by title, abstract, and full paper text review to develop the original pool of papers. An in-depth ancestor search was used to gather additional articles from the references of the original pool. These steps resulted in 37 papers. Through a thematic review process, the papers were analysed and five themes emerged. These were: 1) process and data types;
Blockchain for Industry 4.0: A comprehensive review;Due to the proliferation of ICT during the last few decades, there is an exponential increase in the usage of various smart applications such as smart farming, smart healthcare, supply-chain logistics, business, tourism and hospitality, energy management etc. However, for all the aforementioned applications, security and privacy are major concerns keeping in view of the usage of the open channel, i.e., Internet for data transfer. Although many security solutions and standards have been proposed over the years to enhance the security levels of aforementioned smart applications, but the existing solutions are either based upon the centralized architecture (having single point of failure) or having high computation and communication costs. Moreover, most of the existing security solutions have focussed only on few aspects and fail to address scalability, robustness, data storage, network latency, auditability, immutability, and traceability. To handle the aforementioned issues, blockchain technology can be one of the solutions. Motivated from these facts, in this paper, we present a systematic review of various blockchain-based solutions and their applicability in various Industry 4.0-based applications. Our contributions in this paper are in four fold. Firstly, we explored the current state-of-the-art solutions in the blockchain technology for the smart applications. Then, we illustrated the reference architecture used for the blockchain applicability in various Industry 4.0 applications. Then, merits and demerits of the traditional security solutions are also discussed in comparison to their countermeasures. Finally, we provided a comparison of existing blockchain-based security solutions using various parameters to provide deep insights to the readers about its applicability in various applications.  2013 IEEE.;Blockchain
Authentication of IoT Device and IoT Server Using Secure Vaults;Internet of Things is a topic of much interest and, in last few years, security of the IoT systems is a field of tremendous research activities. Mutual authentication between IoT devices and IoT servers is an important part of secure IoT systems. Single password-based authentication mechanisms, which are widely used, are vulnerable to side-channel and dictionary attacks. In this paper, we present a multi-key (or multi-password) based mutual authentication mechanism. In our approach, the shared secret between the IoT server and the IoT device is called secure vault, which is a collection of equal sized keys. Initial contents of the secure vault are shared between the server and the IoT device and contents of the secure vault change after every successful communication session. We have implemented this mechanism on an Arduino device to prove our algorithm is feasible on IoT devices with memory and computational power constraints.  2018 IEEE.;IoT Device Authentication
Blockchain technology;Blockchain technology has gained considerable attention for different types of stakeholders due to its stable implementation in the field of digital currency like Bitcoin. Some users use Bitcoin for payment exchanges against any business while others use the Bitcoin network for earning Bitcoins itself, and there is also another type of user who called hackers those flood different types of attacks to illegally earn some Bitcoins or collapsing overall network. There are also numerous uses of blockchain technology, e.g. health, automation industry, energy sector, security and authentication in smart grids. In this study, we have elaborated on different critical aspects of Blockchain technology like its style of working mechanism, possible improvement suggestions by using Proof-of-Stake, and other custom variations, attempting seven types of challenges by different novel techniques. Moreover, we have also explained the current state-of-the-artwork in blockchain's non-financial applications like Healthcare in which contribution of four-layered custom blockchain models related to precision medicine and the clinical trial was notable. Moreover, a mobile app model called HDG for the automation of medical records without compromising privacy was also a prominent contribution.  2020 Elsevier Ltd;Bitcoin
A Decade of Internet of Things: Analysis in the Light of Healthcare Applications;Impressive growth in the number of wearable health monitoring devices has affected global health industry as they provide rapid and intricate details related to physical examinations, such as discomfort, heart rate, and blood glucose level, which enable doctors to efficiently diagnose sensitive heart troubles. The Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) is a phenomenon wherein computer networks and medical equipment are connected through the Internet to provide real-time interaction between physicians and patients. In this article, we present a comprehensive view of the IoMT and its related Machine Learning (ML)-based developed frameworks designed, or being utilized, in the last decade, i.e., from 2010 to 2019. The presented techniques are designed for monitoring limbs, controlling rural healthcare, identifying e-health applications, monitoring health through mobile apps, classifying heart sounds, detecting stress in drivers, monitoring cardiac diseases, making the decision to predict heart attacks, recognizing human activities, and classifying breast cancer. The aim is to provide a clear picture of the existing IoMT environment so that the analysis may pave the way for the diagnosis of critical disorders such as cancer, heart attack, and blood pressure among others. In the end, we also provide some unresolved challenges that are confronted in the deployment of the secure IoMT-based healthcare systems.  2013 IEEE.;Health apps identification
Elliptic Curve Lightweight Cryptography: A Survey;Since it was invented in 1986, elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) has been studied widely in industry and academy from different perspectives. Some of these aspects include mathematical foundations, protocol design, curve generation, security proofs, point representation, algorithms for inherent arithmetic in the underlying algebraic structures, implementation strategies in both software and hardware, and attack models, among others. The main advantage of ECC is that shorter keys (less-memory requirements and faster field arithmetic operations) can be used if compared with other cryptosystems, which has made it the ideal choice for implementing public key cryptography in resource constrained devices, as the ones found in the envisioned applications of the Internet of Things, e.g., wireless sensors. In this application domain, lightweight cryptography has emerged as the required one because of the scarce computing resources and limited energy in devices. In this paper, we present a survey of ECC in the context of lightweight cryptography. The aim of this paper is to identify the criteria that make an ECC-based system lightweight and a viable solution for using in practical constrained applications. Representative works are systematically revised to determine the key aspects considered in ECC designs for lightweight realizations. As a result, this paper defines, for the first time, the concept and requirements for elliptic curve lightweight cryptography.  2013 IEEE.;Cryptography
Ethics of the health-related internet of things: a narrative review;The internet of things is increasingly spreading into the domain of medical and social care. Internet-enabled devices for monitoring and managing the health and well-being of users outside of traditional medical institutions have rapidly become common tools to support healthcare. Health-related internet of things (H-IoT) technologies increasingly play a key role in health management, for purposes including disease prevention, real-time tele-monitoring of patient’s functions, testing of treatments, fitness and well-being monitoring, medication dispensation, and health research data collection. H-IoT promises many benefits for health and healthcare. However, it also raises a host of ethical problems stemming from the inherent risks of Internet enabled devices, the sensitivity of health-related data, and their impact on the delivery of healthcare. This paper maps the main ethical problems that have been identified by the relevant literature and identifies key themes in the on-going debate on ethical problems concerning H-IoT.  2017, The Author(s).;Data analytics
Systematic Mapping of Process Mining Studies in Healthcare;In the last decade, as an emerging technique for business processes management, process mining (PM) has been applied in many domains, including manufacturing, supply-chain, government, healthcare, and software engineering. Particularly in healthcare, where most processes are complex, variable, dynamic, and multi-disciplinary in nature, the application of this technique is growing yet challenging. Several literature reviews, as secondary studies, reveal the state of PM applications in healthcare from different perspectives, such as clinical pathways, oncology processes, and hospital management. In this article, we present the results of a systematic mapping (SM) study which we conducted to structure the information available in the primary studies. SM is a well-accepted method to identify and categorize research literature, in which the number of primary studies is rapidly growing. We searched for studies between 2005 and 2017 in the electronic digital libraries of scientific literature, and identified 172 studies out of the 2428 initially found on the topic of PM in healthcare. We created a concept map based on the information provided by the primary studies and classified these studies according to a number of attributes including the types of research and contribution, application context, healthcare specialty, mining activity, process modeling type and notation/language, and mining algorithm. We also reported the demographics and bibliometrics trends in this domain;
Approach for the development of a framework for the identification of Activities of Daily Living using sensors in mobile devices;Sensors available on mobile devices allow the automatic identification of Activities of Daily Living (ADL). This paper describes an approach for the creation of a framework for the identification of ADL, taking into account several concepts, including data acquisition, data processing, data fusion, and pattern recognition. These concepts can be mapped onto different modules of the framework. The proposed framework should perform the identification of ADL without Internet connection, performing these tasks locally on the mobile device, taking in account the hardware and software limitations of these devices. The main purpose of this paper is to present a new approach for the creation of a framework for the recognition of ADL, analyzing the allowed sensors available in the mobile devices, and the existing methods available in the literature.  2018 by the authors. licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Activities of Daily Living (ADL)
Enabling patient control of personal electronic health records through distributed ledger technology;The rise of distributed ledger technology, initiated and exemplified by the Bitcoin blockchain, is having an increasing impact on information technology environments in which there is an emphasis on trust and security. Management of electronic health records, where both conformation to legislative regulations and maintenance of public trust are paramount, is an area where the impact of these new technologies may be particularly beneficial. We present a system that enables finegrained personalized control of third-party access to patients' electronic health records, allowing individuals to specify when and how their records are accessed for research purposes. The use of the smart contract based Ethereum blockchain technology to implement this system allows it to operate in a verifiably secure, trustless, and openly auditable environment, features crucial to health information systems moving forward.  2017 International Medical Informatics Association (IMIA) and IOS Press.;Electronic health records
HEALTH BANK - A workbench for data science applications in healthcare;The enormous amounts of data that are generated in the healthcare process and stored in electronic health record (EHR) systems are an underutilized resource that, with the use of data science applications, can be exploited to improve healthcare. To foster the development and use of data science applications in healthcare, there is a fundamental need for access to EHR data, which is typically not readily available to researchers and developers. A relatively rare exception is the large EHR database, the Stockholm EPR Corpus, comprising data from more than two million patients, that has been been made available to a limited group of researchers at Stockholm University. Here, we describe a number of data science applications that have been developed using this database, demonstrating the potential reuse of EHR data to support healthcare and public health activities, as well as facilitate medical research. However, in order to realize the full potential of this resource, it needs to be made available to a larger community of researchers, as well as to industry actors. To that end, we envision the provision of an infrastructure around this database called HEALTH BANK - the Swedish Health Record Research Bank. It will function both as a workbench for the development of data science applications and as a data exploration tool, allowing epidemiologists, pharmacologists and other medical researchers to generate and evaluate hypotheses. Aggregated data will be fed into a pipeline for open e-access, while non-aggregated data will be provided to researchers within an ethical permission framework. We believe that HEALTH BANK has the potential to promote a growing industry around the development of data science applications that will ultimately increase the efficiency and effectiveness of healthcare. Copyright  2015 held by the authors. Copyright  2015 for the individual papers by the papers' authors.;Clinical text
From smart health to smart hospitals;Prolonged life expectancy along with the increasing complexity of medicine and health services raises health costs worldwide dramatically. Advancements in ubiquitous computing applications in combination with the use of sophisticated intelligent sensor networks may provide a basis for help. Whilst the smart health concept has much potential to support the concept of the emerging P4-medicine (preventive, participatory, predictive, and personalized), such high-tech medicine produces large amounts of high-dimensional, weaklystructured data sets and massive amounts of unstructured information. All these technological approaches along with “big data” are turning the medical sciences into a data-intensive science. To keep pace with the growing amounts of complex data, smart hospital approaches are a commandment of the future, necessitating context aware computing along with advanced interaction paradigms in new physical-digital ecosystems. In such a system the medical doctors are supported by their smart mobile medical assistants on managing their floods of data semiautomatically by following the human-in-the-loop concept. At the same time patients are supported by their health assistants to facilitate a healthier life, wellness and wellbeing.  Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015.;Computational intelligence
Deep Learning in Cardiology;The medical field is creating large amount of data that physicians are unable to decipher and use efficiently. Moreover, rule-based expert systems are inefficient in solving complicated medical tasks or for creating insights using big data. Deep learning has emerged as a more accurate and effective technology in a wide range of medical problems such as diagnosis, prediction, and intervention. Deep learning is a representation learning method that consists of layers that transform data nonlinearly, thus, revealing hierarchical relationships and structures. In this review, we survey deep learning application papers that use structured data, and signal and imaging modalities from cardiology. We discuss the advantages and limitations of applying deep learning in cardiology that also apply in medicine in general, while proposing certain directions as the most viable for clinical use.  2008 IEEE.;cardiology
A user-oriented web crawler for selectively acquiring online content in e-health research;Motivation: Life stories of diseased and healthy individuals are abundantly available on the Internet. Collecting and mining such online content can offer many valuable insights into patients' physical and emotional states throughout the pre-diagnosis, diagnosis, treatment and post-treatment stages of the disease compared with those of healthy subjects. However, such content is widely dispersed across the web. Using traditional query-based search engines to manually collect relevant materials is rather labor intensive and often incomplete due to resource constraints in terms of human query composition and result parsing efforts. The alternative option, blindly crawling the whole web, has proven inefficient and unaffordable for e-health researchers.Results: We propose a user-oriented web crawler that adaptively acquires user-desired content on the Internet to meet the specific online data source acquisition needs of e-health researchers. Experimental results on two cancer-related case studies show that the new crawler can substantially accelerate the acquisition of highly relevant online content compared with the existing state-of-the-art adaptive web crawling technology. For the breast cancer case study using the full training set, the new method achieves a cumulative precision between 74.7 and 79.4% after 5 h of execution till the end of the 20-h long crawling session as compared with the cumulative precision between 32.8 and 37.0% using the peer method for the same time period. For the lung cancer case study using the full training set, the new method achieves a cumulative precision between 56.7 and 61.2% after 5 h of execution till the end of the 20-h long crawling session as compared with the cumulative precision between 29.3 and 32.4% using the peer method. Using the reduced training set in the breast cancer case study, the cumulative precision of our method is between 44.6 and 54.9%, whereas the cumulative precision of the peer method is between 24.3 and 26.3%;
A comprehensive study of security and privacy guidelines,  threats,  and countermeasures: An IoT perspective;As Internet of Things (IoT) involvement increases in our daily lives, several security and privacy concerns like linkability, unauthorized conversations, and side-channel attacks are raised. If they are left untouched, such issues may threaten the existence of IoT. They derive from two main reasons. One is that IoT objects are equipped with limited capabilities in terms of computation power, memory, and bandwidth which hamper the direct implementation of traditional Internet security techniques. The other reason is the absence of widely-accepted IoT security and privacy guidelines and their appropriate implementation techniques. Such guidelines and techniques would greatly assist IoT stakeholders like developers and manufacturers, paving the road for building secure IoT systems from the start and, thus, reinforcing IoT security and privacy by design. In order to contribute to such objective, we first briefly discuss the primary IoT security goals and recognize IoT stakeholders. Second, we propose a comprehensive list of IoT security and privacy guidelines for the edge nodes and communication levels of IoT reference architecture. Furthermore, we point out the IoT stakeholders such as customers and manufacturers who will benefit most from these guidelines. Moreover, we identify a set of implementation techniques by which such guidelines can be accomplished, and possible attacks against previously-mentioned levels can be alleviated. Third, we discuss the challenges of IoT security and privacy guidelines, and we briefly discuss digital rights management in IoT. Finally, through this survey, we suggest several open issues that require further investigation in the future. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this work is the first survey that covers the above-mentioned objectives.  2019 by the authors.;Attacks
Leveraging Machine Learning and Big Data for Smart Buildings: A Comprehensive Survey;Future buildings will offer new convenience, comfort, and efficiency possibilities to their residents. Changes will occur to the way people live as technology involves people's lives and information processing is fully integrated into their daily living activities and objects. The future expectation of smart buildings includes making the residents' experience as easy and comfortable as possible. The massive streaming data generated and captured by smart building appliances and devices contain valuable information that needs to be mined to facilitate timely actions and better decision making. Machine learning and big data analytics will undoubtedly play a critical role to enable the delivery of such smart services. In this paper, we survey the area of smart building with a special focus on the role of techniques from machine learning and big data analytics. This survey also reviews the current trends and challenges faced in the development of smart building services.  2013 IEEE.;big data analytics
Privacy-preserving ridge regression on distributed data;Ridge regression is a statistical method for modeling a linear relationship between a dependent variable and some explanatory values. It is a building-block that plays a major role in many learning algorithms such as recommendation systems. However, in many applications such as e-health, explanatory values contains private information owned by different patients that are not willing to share them, unless data privacy is guaranteed. In this paper, we propose a protocol for conducting privacy-preserving ridge regression (PPRR) over high-dimensional data. In our protocol, each user submits its data in an encrypted form to an evaluator and the evaluator computes a linear model of all users’ data without learning their contents. The core encryption method is equipped with homomorphic properties to enable the evaluator to perform ridge regression over encrypted data. We implement our protocol and demonstrate that it is suitable for dealing with high-dimensional data distributed among millions of users. We also compare our protocol with the state-of-the-art solutions in terms of both computation and communication costs. The results show that our protocol outperforms most existing approaches based on secure multi-party computation, garbled circuit, fully homomorphic encryption, secret-sharing, and hybrid methods.  2018 Elsevier Inc.;Data privacy
A greedy deep learning method for medical disease analysis;This paper proposes a new deep learning method, the greedy deep weighted dictionary learning for mobile multimedia for medical diseases analysis. Based on the traditional dictionary learning methods, which neglects the relationship between the sample and the dictionary atom, we propose the weighted mechanism to connect the sample with the dictionary atom in this paper. Meanwhile, the traditional dictionary learning method is prone to cause over-fitting for patient classification of the limited training data set. Therefore, this paper adopts norm regularization constraint, which realizes the limitation of the model space, and enhances the generalization ability of the model and avoids over-fitting to some extent. Compared with the previous shallow dictionary learning, this paper proposed the greedy deep dictionary learning. We adopt the thinking of layer by layer training to increase the hidden layer, so that the local information between the layer and the layer can be trained to maintain their own characteristics, reduce the risk of over-fitting and make sure that each layer of the network is convergent, which improves the accuracy of training and learning. With the development of Internet of Things and the soundness of healthcare monitoring system, the method proposed have better reliability in the field of mobile multimedia for healthcare. The results show that the learning method has a good effect on the classification of mobile multimedia for medical diseases, and the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of the classification have good performance, which may provide guidance for the diagnosis of disease in wisdom medical.  2018 IEEE.;Deep learning
PrivySharing: A blockchain-based framework for privacy-preserving and secure data sharing in smart cities;The ubiquitous use of Internet of Things (IoT) ranges from industrial control systems to e-Health, e-commerce, smart cities, agriculture, supply chain management, smart cars, cyber-physical systems and a lot more. However, the data collected and processed by IoT systems especially the ones with centralized control are vulnerable to availability, integrity, and privacy threats. Hence, we present “PrivySharing,” a blockchain-based innovative framework for privacy-preserving and secure IoT data sharing in a smart city environment. The proposed scheme is distinct from existing strategies on many aspects. The data privacy is preserved by dividing the blockchain network into various channels, where every channel comprises a finite number of authorized organizations and processes a specific type of data such as health, smart car, smart energy or financial details. Moreover, access to users’ data within a channel is controlled by embedding access control rules in the smart contracts. In addition, data within a channel is further isolated and secured by using private data collection and encryption respectively. Likewise, the REST API that enables clients to interact with the blockchain network has dual security in the form of an API Key and OAuth 2.0. The proposed solution conforms to some of the significant requirements outlined in the European Union General Data Protection Regulation. We also present a system of reward in the form of a digital token named “PrivyCoin” for users sharing their data with stakeholders/third parties. Lastly, the experimental outcomes advocate that a multi-channel blockchain scales well as compared to a single-channel blockchain system.  2019 Elsevier Ltd;Blockchain
Predictive analytics in health care: how can we know it works?;"There is increasing awareness that the methodology and findings of research should be transparent. This includes studies using artificial intelligence to develop predictive algorithms that make individualized diagnostic or prognostic risk predictions. We argue that it is paramount to make the algorithm behind any prediction publicly available. This allows independent external validation, assessment of performance heterogeneity across settings and over time, and algorithm refinement or updating. Online calculators and apps may aid uptake if accompanied with sufficient information. For algorithms based on ""black box"" machine learning methods, software for algorithm implementation is a must. Hiding algorithms for commercial exploitation is unethical, because there is no possibility to assess whether algorithms work as advertised or to monitor when and how algorithms are updated. Journals and funders should demand maximal transparency for publications on predictive algorithms, and clinical guidelines should only recommend publicly available algorithms.  2019 The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Medical Informatics Association.";artificial intelligence
A Comparative Analysis of Blockchain Architecture and its Applications: Problems and Recommendations;In the past few years, the implementation of blockchain technology for various applications has been widely discussed in the research community and the industry. There are sufficient number of articles that discuss the possibility of applying blockchain technology in various areas, such as, healthcare, IoT, and business. However, in this article, we present a comparative analysis of core blockchain architecture, its fundamental concepts, and its applications in three major areas: the Internet-of-Things (IoT), healthcare, business and vehicular industry. For each area, we discuss in detail, challenges and solutions that have been proposed from the research community and industry. This research studies also presented the complete ecosystem of blockchain of all the papers we reviewed and summarized. Moreover, analysis is performed of various blockchain platforms, their consensus models, and applications. Finally, we discuss key aspects that are required for the widespread future adoption of blockchain technology in these major areas.  2013 IEEE.;Blockchain
Passive sensing of health outcomes through smartphones: Systematic review of current solutions and possible limitations;Background: Technological advancements, together with the decrease in both price and size of a large variety of sensors, has expanded the role and capabilities of regular mobile phones, turning them into powerful yet ubiquitous monitoring systems. At present, smartphones have the potential to continuously collect information about the users, monitor their activities and behaviors in real time, and provide them with feedback and recommendations. Objective: This systematic review aimed to identify recent scientific studies that explored the passive use of smartphones for generating health- and well-being–related outcomes. In addition, it explores users’ engagement and possible challenges in using such self-monitoring systems. Methods: A systematic review was conducted, following Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines, to identify recent publications that explore the use of smartphones as ubiquitous health monitoring systems. We ran reproducible search queries on PubMed, IEEE Xplore, ACM Digital Library, and Scopus online databases and aimed to find answers to the following questions: (1) What is the study focus of the selected papers? (2) What smartphone sensing technologies and data are used to gather health-related input? (3) How are the developed systems validated? and (4) What are the limitations and challenges when using such sensing systems? Results: Our bibliographic research returned 7404 unique publications. Of these, 118 met the predefined inclusion criteria, which considered publication dates from 2014 onward, English language, and relevance for the topic of this review. The selected papers highlight that smartphones are already being used in multiple health-related scenarios. Of those, physical activity (29.6%; Mobile phone; Self-management; Smartphone;" Systematic review""";
Biomedical informatics: Computer applications in health care and biomedicine: Fourth edition;The practice of modern medicine and biomedical research requires sophisticated information technologies with which to manage patient information, plan diagnostic procedures, interpret laboratory results, and carry out investigations. Biomedical Informatics provides both a conceptual framework and a practical inspiration for this swiftly emerging scientific discipline at the intersection of computer science, decision science, information science, cognitive science, and biomedicine. Now revised and in its third edition, this text meets the growing demand by practitioners, researchers, and students for a comprehensive introduction to key topics in the field. Authored by leaders in medical informatics and extensively tested in their courses, the chapters in this volume constitute an effective textbook for students of medical informatics and its areas of application. The book is also a useful reference work for individual readers needing to understand the role that computers can play in the provision of clinical services and the pursuit of biological questions. The volume is organized so as first to explain basic concepts and then to illustrate them with specific systems and technologies.  Springer-Verlag London 2014. All rights reserved.;
Automated Deep Transfer Learning-Based Approach for Detection of COVID-19 Infection in Chest X-rays;The most widely used novel coronavirus (COVID-19) detection technique is a real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). However, RT-PCR kits are costly and take 6-9 hours to confirm infection in the patient. Due to less sensitivity of RT-PCR, it provides high false-negative results. To resolve this problem, radiological imaging techniques such as chest X-rays and computed tomography (CT) are used to detect and diagnose COVID-19. In this paper, chest X-rays is preferred over CT scan. The reason behind this is that X-rays machines are available in most of the hospitals. X-rays machines are cheaper than the CT scan machine. Besides this, X-rays has low ionizing radiations than CT scan. COVID-19 reveals some radiological signatures that can be easily detected through chest X-rays. For this, radiologists are required to analyze these signatures. However, it is a time-consuming and error-prone task. Hence, there is a need to automate the analysis of chest X-rays. The automatic analysis of chest X-rays can be done through deep learning-based approaches, which may accelerate the analysis time. These approaches can train the weights of networks on large datasets as well as fine-tuning the weights of pre-trained networks on small datasets. However, these approaches applied to chest X-rays are very limited. Hence, the main objective of this paper is to develop an automated deep transfer learning-based approach for detection of COVID-19 infection in chest X-rays by using the extreme version of the Inception (Xception) model. Extensive comparative analyses show that the proposed model performs significantly better as compared to the existing models.  2020 AGBM;Chest x-ray
DeepReco: Deep learning based health recommender system using collaborative filtering;In today's digital world healthcare is one core area of the medical domain. A healthcare system is required to analyze a large amount of patient data which helps to derive insights and assist the prediction of diseases. This system should be intelligent in order to predict a health condition by by analyzing a patient's lifestyle, physical health records and social activities. The health recommender system (HRS) is becoming an important platform for healthcare services. In this context, health intelligent systems have become indispensable tools in decision making processes in the healthcare sector. Their main objective is to ensure the availability of the valuable information at the right time by ensuring information quality, trustworthiness, authentication and privacy concerns. As people use social networks to understand their health condition, so the health recommender system is very important to derive outcomes such as recommending diagnoses, health insurance, clinical pathway-based treatment methods and alternative medicines based on the patient's health profile. Recent research which targets the utilization of large volumes of medical data while combining multimodal data from disparate sources is discussed which reduces the workload and cost in health care. In the healthcare sector, big data analytics using recommender systems have an important role in terms of decision-making processes with respect to a patient's health. This paper gives a proposed intelligent HRS using Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM)-Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) deep learning method, which provides an insight into how big data analytics can be used for the implementation of an effective health recommender engine, and illustrates an opportunity for the health care industry to transition from a traditional scenario to a more personalized paradigm in a tele-health environment. By considering Root Square Mean Error (RSME) and Mean Absolute Error (MAE) values, the proposed deep learning method (RBM-CNN) presents fewer errors compared to other approaches.  2019 by the author.;CNN
RFID localisation for internet of things smart homes: A survey;The Internet of Things (IoT) enables numerous business opportunities in fields as diverse as e-health, smart cities, smart homes, among many others. The IoT incorporates multiple long-range, short-range, and personal area wireless networks and technologies into the designs of IoT applications. Localisation in indoor positioning systems plays an important role in the IoT. Location Based IoT applications range from tracking objects and people in real-time, assets management, agriculture, assisted monitoring technologies for healthcare, and smart homes, to name a few. Radio Frequency based systems for indoor positioning such as Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is a key enabler technology for the IoT due to its costeffective, high readability rates, automatic identification and, importantly, its energy efficiency characteristic. This paper reviews the state-of-the-art RFID technologies in IoT Smart Homes applications. It presents several comparable studies of RFID based projects in smart homes and discusses the applications, techniques, algorithms, and challenges of adopting RFID technologies in IoT smart home systems.;Indoor positioning
BreakHis based breast cancer automatic diagnosis using deep learning: Taxonomy,  survey and insights;There are several breast cancer datasets for building Computer Aided Diagnosis systems (CADs) using either deep learning or traditional models. However, most of these datasets impose various trade-offs on practitioners related to their availability or inner clinical value. Recently, a public dataset called BreakHis has been released to overcome these limitations. BreakHis is organized into four magnification levels, each image is labeled according to its main category (Benign/Malignant) and its subcategory (A/F/PT/TA/PC/DC/LC/MC). This organization allows practitioners to address this problem either as a binary or a multi-category classification task with either a magnification dependent or independent training approach. In this work, we define a taxonomy that categorize this problem into four different reformulations: Magnification-Specific Binary (MSB), Magnification-Independent Binary (MIB), Magnification-Specific Multi-category (MSM) and Magnification-Independent Multi-category (MIM) classifications. We provide a comprehensive survey of all related works. We identify the best reformulation from clinical and practical standpoints. Finally, we explore for the first time the MIM approach using deep learning and draw the learnt lessons.  2019 Elsevier B.V.;BreakHis dataset
Smart healthcare framework for ambient assisted living using IoMT and big data analytics techniques;In the era of pervasive computing, human living has become smarter by the latest advancements in IoMT (Internet of Medical Things), wearable sensors and telecommunication technologies in order to deliver smart healthcare services. IoMT has the potential to revolutionize the healthcare industry. IoMT interconnects wearable sensors, patients, healthcare providers and caregivers via software and ICT (Information and Communication Technology). AAL (Ambient Assisted Living) enables integration of new technologies to be part of our daily life activities. In this paper, we have provided a novel smart healthcare framework for AAL to monitor the physical activities of elderly people using IoMT and intelligent machine learning algorithms for faster analysis, decision making and better treatment recommendations. Data is collected from multiple wearable sensors placed on subject's left ankle, right arm, and chest, is transmitted through IoMT devices to the integrated cloud and data analytics layer. To process huge amounts of data in parallel, Hadoop MapReduce techniques are used. Multinomial Naïve Bayes classifier, which fits into the MapReduce paradigm, is utilized to recognize the motion experienced by different body parts and provides higher scalability and better performance with parallel processing when compared to serial processor. Our proposed framework predicts 12 physical activities with an overall accuracy of 97.1%. This can be considered as an optimal solution for recognizing physical activities to remotely monitor health conditions of elderly people.  2019 Elsevier B.V.;Ambient Assisted Living (AAL)
Applications of distributed ledger technologies to the internet of things: A survey;Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLTs) and blockchain systems have received enormous academic, government, and commercial interest in recent years. This article surveys the integration of DLTs within another life-changing technology, the Internet of Things (IoT). IoT-based applications, such as smart home, smart transport, supply chain, smart healthcare, and smart energy, promise to boost the efficiency of existing infrastructures and change every facet of our daily life. This article looks into the challenges faced by such applications and reviews a comprehensive selection of existing DLT solutions to those challenges. We also identify issues for future research, including DLT security and scalability, multi-DLT applications, and survival of DLT in the post-quantum world. c 2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Blockchain
BlockChain for IoT security and management: Current prospects,  challenges and future directions;The paper presents an in detailed case study of integrating BlockChain (BC) in IoT ecosystems in order to achieve security and privacy. Since the use in cryptocurrency, BlockChain has gained tremendous attraction due to the versatile application prospects it raises. As internet of things (IoT) is emerging towards the smart city requirements, device or data security seems to be a major concern. Therefore, BlockChain based decentralized and distributed system can meet the privacy preserving management in IoT ecosystems. In this paper, we discuss the necessity of utilizing BlockChain for IoT security, privacy, management. We present a literature overview of current progresses and security enhancement in sensor networks using BlockChain;
A Survey on Human Behavior Recognition Using Channel State Information;Recently, device-free human behavior recognition has become a hot research topic and has achieved significant progress in the field of ubiquitous computing. Among various implementation, behavior recognition based on WiFi CSI (channel state information) has drawn wide attention due to its major advantages. This paper investigates more than 100 latest CSI based behavior recognition applications within the last 6 years and presents a comprehensive survey from every aspect of human behavior recognition. Firstly, this paper reviews general behavior recognition applications using the WiFi signal and presents the basic concept of CSI and the fundamental principle of CSI-based behavior recognition. This paper analyzes the key components and core characteristics of the system architecture of human behavior recognition using CSI. Afterward, we divide the sensing procedures into many steps and summarize the typical studies from these steps, including base signal selection, signal preprocessing, and identification approaches. Next, based on the recognition technique, we classify the applications into three groups, including pattern-based, model-based, and deep learning-based approach. In every group, we categorize the state-of-the-art applications into three groups, including coarse-grained specific behavior recognition, fine-grained specific behavior recognition, and activity inference. It elaborates the typical behavior recognition applications from five aspects, including experimental equipment, experimental scenario, behavior, classifier, and system performance. Then, this paper presents comprehensive discussions about representative applications from the implementation view and outlines the major consideration when developing a recognition system. Finally, this article concludes by analyzing the open issues of CSI-based behavior recognition applications and pointing out future research directions.  2013 IEEE.;Channel state information (CSI)
A study of a health resources management platform integrating neural networks and dss telemedicine for homecare assistance;The proposed paper is related to a case of study of an e-health telemedicine system oriented on homecare assistance and suitable for de-hospitalization processes. The proposed platform is able to transfer efficiently the patient analyses from home to a control room of a clinic, thus potentially reducing costs and providing high-quality assistance services. The goal is to propose an innovative resources management platform (RMP) integrating an innovative homecare decision support system (DSS) based on a multilayer perceptron (MLP) artificial neural network (ANN). The study is oriented in predictive diagnostics by proposing an RMP integrating a KNIME (Konstanz Information Miner) MLP-ANN workflow experimented on blood pressure systolic values. The workflow elaborates real data transmitted via the cloud by medical smart sensors and provides a prediction of the patient status. The innovative RMP-DSS is then structured to enable three main control levels. The first one is a real-time alerting condition triggered when real-time values exceed a threshold. The second one concerns preventative action based on the analysis of historical patient data, and the third one involves alerting due to patient status prediction. The proposed study combines the management of processes with DSS outputs, thus optimizing the homecare assistance activities.  2018 by the authors.;Artificial neural network
Fuzzy Intelligent System for Patients with Preeclampsia in Wearable Devices;Preeclampsia affects from 5% to 14% of all pregnant women and is responsible for about 14% of maternal deaths per year in the world. This paper is focused on the use of a decision analysis tool for the early detection of preeclampsia in women at risk. This tool applies a fuzzy linguistic approach implemented in a wearable device. In order to develop this tool, a real dataset containing data of pregnant women with high risk of preeclampsia from a health center has been analyzed, and a fuzzy linguistic methodology with two main phases is used. Firstly, linguistic transformation is applied to the dataset to increase the interpretability and flexibility in the analysis of preeclampsia. Secondly, knowledge extraction is done by means of inferring rules using decision trees to classify the dataset. The obtained linguistic rules provide understandable monitoring of preeclampsia based on wearable applications and devices. Furthermore, this paper not only introduces the proposed methodology, but also presents a wearable application prototype which applies the rules inferred from the fuzzy decision tree to detect preeclampsia in women at risk. The proposed methodology and the developed wearable application can be easily adapted to other contexts such as diabetes or hypertension.  2017 Macarena Espinilla et al.;
Big Data Research in Italy: A Perspective;The aim of this article is to synthetically describe the research projects that a selection of Italian universities is undertaking in the context of big data. Far from being exhaustive, this article has the objective of offering a sample of distinct applications that address the issue of managing huge amounts of data in Italy, collected in relation to diverse domains.  2016 THE AUTHORS;Big data
Big data and health care: Challenges and opportunities for coordinated policy development in the EU;As global policy makers prioritize big data policy, it is important to try to outline expected outcomes vis-a-vis health sector objectives. We identify initiatives aimed at promoting the use of big data in European Union (EU) health care, highlight expected challenges, and use these to evaluate EU big data policy developments to the extent that they are able to advance health sector priorities. A comprehensive approach is used to capture and examine peer-reviewed and gray literature publications on the use of big data in global health systems. This approach involved electronic database and specialist website searching, as well as complementary use of search engines and qualitative inputs from key EU policy stakeholders. Ongoing health data initiatives revolve around data center development, confidentiality and security, ehealth and m-health, and genomics and bioinformatics. The literature acknowledges several main challenges to the successful integration of big data in health care, classified as either ethical (confidentiality and data security, access to information) or technical (data reliability, interoperability, data management and governance). EU data policy has started to address these issues, though additional work remains. A larger outstanding challenge is the lack of a comprehensive health and research policy strategy for big data that targets sectoral objectives. It remains unclear how big data integration will affect the quality and performance of health care in the EU. The promises of big data are being eroded by a failure to develop a coherent approach to adequately address conceptual, ethical, and technical challenges pertaining to its use within EU health systems.  Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.;Big data
Context information sharing for the Internet of Things: A survey;Internet of Things (IoT) technology is starting to make an impact in a wide array of applications, including smart cities and industrial environments. Such real-world applications combine computation, communication, sensing, and in some cases, actuation, to monitor and remotely control the environment. Data is at the core of such real-world IoT applications. Analysis, modeling, and reasoning of data are necessary to gain valuable insights. Application developers employ context-aware systems to translate the data into contextual information, which then allows the applications to act cognitively. Context sharing platforms offer a solution to distribute context information to those who may be interested in it, thus enabling context interoperability among different entities. This survey first examines the requirements for sharing context information. It then reviews the relevant literature for context sharing and classifies them based on their requirements and characteristics. Challenges and future directions are presented to encourage the development of context sharing platforms.  2019;Context platform
Cloud-Assisted EHR Sharing with Security and Privacy Preservation via Consortium Blockchain;The sharing of electronic health records (EHRs) has great positive significance for research of disease and doctors' diagnosis. In recent years, cloud-based electronic medical record sharing scheme has brought a lot of conveniences, but the centralization of cloud exposes threats inevitably to data security and privacy preservation. Blockchain technology can be seen as a promising solution to address these problems on account of its unique propertis of decentration, anonymity, unforgeability and verifiability. In this paper, we propose a blockchain based secure and privacy-preserving EHR sharing protocol. Data requester can search desired keyword from data provider to find relevant EHRs on the EHR consortium blockchain and get the re-encryption ciphertext from cloud server after getting the data owner's authorization. The scheme mainly uses searchable encryption and conditional proxy re-encryption to realize data security, privacy preservation, and access control. Furthermore, proof of authorization is designed as the consensus mechanism for consortium blockchain to guarantee system's availability. Security analysis demonstrates that the proposed protocol can achieve security goals. Besides, we emulate the cryptographic primitives and implement the proposed scheme on Ethereum platform. Performance evaluation shows that the proposed scheme has high computational efficiency.  2013 IEEE.;blockchain
A Secure and Efficient Data Integrity Verification Scheme for Cloud-IoT Based on Short Signature;The Internet of Things (IoT) is also known as the Internet of everything. As an important part of the new generation of intelligent information technology, the IoT has attracted the attention both of researchers and engineers all over the world. Considering the limited capacity of smart products, the IoT mainly uses cloud computing to expand computing and storage resources. The massive data collected by the sensor are stored in the cloud storage server, also the cloud vulnerability will directly threaten the security and reliability of the IoT. In order to ensure data integrity and availability in the cloud and IoT storage system, users need to verify the integrity of remote data. However, the existing remote data integrity verification schemes are mostly based on the RSA and BLS signature mechanisms. The RSA-based scheme has too much computational overhead. The BLS signature-based scheme needs to adopt a specific hash function, and the batch signature efficiency in the big data environment is low. Therefore, for the computational overhead and signature efficiency issues of these two signature mechanisms, we propose a scheme of data integrity verification based on a short signature algorithm (ZSS signature), which supports privacy protection and public auditing by introducing a trusted third party (TPA). The computational overhead is effectively reduced by reducing hash function overhead in the signature process. Under the assumption of CDH difficult problem, it can resist adaptive chosen-message attacks. The analysis shows that the scheme has a higher efficiency and safety.  2013 IEEE.;cloud computing
Internet of Things security and privacy-preserving method through nodes differentiation,  concrete cluster centers,  multi-signature,  and blockchain;Now, the security and privacy-preserving of Internet of Things are receiving more attention. This article proposes a new method of Internet of Things security and privacy preserving by combining differentiated nodes, precision clustering, RSA, multi-signature, and blockchain. To calculate the node rank value in Internet of Things, the number of nodes’ links is taken as the weight of nodes based on PageRank. This method increases the node rank values’ difference between nodes. Accurate clustering determines the initial central nodes of k-means based on the differentiated node rank values, which effectively differentiates the active and inactive nodes in Internet of Things and achieve different levels of protection. To ensure data’s reusability, we adopt the multi-signature. And considering node’s incoming nodes have certain decision on whether data can be transmitted, we filter out two nodes with the highest node rank value from active node’s incoming nodes to do 2/3 multi-signature which saves resources. We encrypt and sign the transmitted data with RSA, helping receivers to verify data. Data are transmitted safely through the blockchain. Successful validation indicates successful transmission. Experiments show that the proposed method can effectively distinguish between active and inactive nodes, which increases the difficulty of attackers’ attack and effectively protects the security and privacy of Internet of Things nodes and data.  The Author(s) 2018.;blockchain
Healthcare predictive analytics: An overview with a focus on Saudi Arabia;Despite a newfound wealth of data and information, the healthcare sector is lacking in actionable knowledge. This is largely because healthcare data, though plentiful, tends to be inherently complex and fragmented. Health data analytics, with an emphasis on predictive analytics, is emerging as a transformative tool that can enable more proactive and preventative treatment options. This review considers the ways in which predictive analytics has been applied in the for-profit business sector to generate well-timed and accurate predictions of key outcomes, with a focus on key features that may be applicable to healthcare-specific applications. Published medical research presenting assessments of predictive analytics technology in medical applications are reviewed, with particular emphasis on how hospitals have integrated predictive analytics into their day-to-day healthcare services to improve quality of care. This review also highlights the numerous challenges of implementing predictive analytics in healthcare settings and concludes with a discussion of current efforts to implement healthcare data analytics in the developing country, Saudi Arabia.  2018 The Author;Data mining
SDN-based secure VANETs communication with fog computing;We present a new VANETS architecture, which is a composition of two modules, software defined network (SDN), and Fog computing. The SDN-based framework gives the scalability, flexibility, programming capability, and the global information, while the Fog computing delivers delicate and locations-aware services that can meet the future demands of VANETs. The proposed framework can address the main problems of VANETs by providing vehicles communications (V2V), vehicle to infrastructures (V2I). We used hybrid SDN architecture and addition od security plane, proposed secure mechanism for communication. In addition, our proposed framework provides a textual awareness system that automatically and intelligently provides possible traffic safety and provides secure and fast communications. Results indicates that the proposed system provides the best results in terms of both type of communication in VANETs.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018.;Cloud computing
MQoL smart lab: Quality of life living lab for interdisciplinary experiments;"As a base for hypothesis formulation and testing, accurate, timely and reproducible data collection is a challenge for all researchers. Data collection is especially challenging in uncontrolled environments, outside of the lab and when it involves many collaborating disciplines, where the data must serve quality research in all of them. In this paper, we present own ""mQoL Smart Lab"" for interdisciplinary research efforts on individuals' ""Quality of Life"" improvement. We present an evolution of our current in-house living lab platform enabling continuous, pervasive data collection from individuals' smartphones. We discuss opportunities for mQoL stemming from developments in machine learning and big data for advanced data analytics in different disciplines, better meeting the requirements put on the platform.  2016 ACM.";Data Analysis
Blockchain for 5G and beyond networks: A state of the art survey;The fifth generation (5G) wireless networks are on the way to be deployed around the world. The 5G technologies target to support diverse vertical applications by connecting heterogeneous devices and machines with drastic improvements in terms of high quality of service, increased network capacity and enhanced system throughput. However, 5G systems still remain a number of security challenges that have been mentioned by researchers and organizations, including decentralization, transparency, risks of data interoperability, and network privacy vulnerabilities. Furthermore, the conventional techniques may not be sufficient to deal with the security requirements of 5G. As 5G is generally deployed in heterogeneous networks with massive ubiquitous devices, it is quite necessary to provide secure and decentralized solutions. Motivated from these facts, in this paper we provide a state-of-the-art survey on the integration of blockchain with 5G networks and beyond. In this detailed survey, our primary focus is on the extensive discussions on the potential of blockchain for enabling key 5G technologies, including cloud computing, edge computing, Network Function Virtualization, Network Slicing, and D2D communications. We then explore and analyse the opportunities that blockchain potentially empowers important 5G services, ranging from spectrum management, data sharing, network virtualization, resource management to interference management, federated learning, privacy and security provision. The recent advances in the applications of blockchain in 5G Internet of Things are also surveyed in a wide range of popular use-case domains, such as smart healthcare, smart city, smart transportation, smart grid and UAVs. The main findings derived from the comprehensive survey on the cooperated blockchain-5G networks and services are then summarized, and possible research challenges with open issues are also identified. Lastly, we complete this survey by shedding new light on future directions of research on this newly emerging area.  2020 Elsevier Ltd;5G Internet of Things
A multilevel graph approach for rainfall forecasting: A preliminary study case on London area;Increasing populations and rapid large-scale urbanization has created a demand to increase the quality of life through economic development, social stability, and better quality environments. These issues are addressed in the field of Smart Cities where, through the Internet of Things, efforts are being made to support added-value services for the administration of the city and for citizens. The continuous exchange of information inevitably produces a huge amount of data, which demands analyses of data using unconventional methods within a Big Data context. How can we properly process these data? How can we properly use these data in order to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of services, and how could they contribute to social development? Services that could be useful in this field include Early Warning Systems. Information management environments, or more generally pervasive data contexts, may be supported by context representation approaches and enhanced through adopting probabilistic approaches such as Context Dimension Tree, Ontology, and Bayesian Network. The aim of this work is to introduce and explain a methodology for merging CDTs and Ontologies, and probabilistic approach based on BNs in order to help expert users handle emergencies and provide suggestions for improving the liveability of cities for their inhabitants.  2019 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.;context awareness
The application of internet-based sources for public health surveillance (infoveillance): Systematic review;Background: Public health surveillance is based on the continuous and systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of data. This informs the development of early warning systems to monitor epidemics and documents the impact of intervention measures. The introduction of digital data sources, and specifically sources available on the internet, has impacted the field of public health surveillance. New opportunities enabled by the underlying availability and scale of internet-based sources (IBSs) have paved the way for novel approaches for disease surveillance, exploration of health communities, and the study of epidemic dynamics. This field and approach is also known as infodemiology or infoveillance. Objective: This review aimed to assess research findings regarding the application of IBSs for public health surveillance (infodemiology or infoveillance). To achieve this, we have presented a comprehensive systematic literature review with a focus on these sources and their limitations, the diseases targeted, and commonly applied methods. Methods: A systematic literature review was conducted targeting publications between 2012 and 2018 that leveraged IBSs for public health surveillance, outbreak forecasting, disease characterization, diagnosis prediction, content analysis, and health-topic identification. The search results were filtered according to previously defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Results: Spanning a total of 162 publications, we determined infectious diseases to be the preferred case study (108/162, 66.7%). Of the eight categories of IBSs (search queries, social media, news, discussion forums, websites, web encyclopedia, and online obituaries), search queries and social media were applied in 95.1% (154/162) of the reviewed publications. We also identified limitations in representativeness and biased user age groups, as well as high susceptibility to media events by search queries, social media, and web encyclopedias. Conclusions: IBSs are a valuable proxy to study illnesses affecting the general population;
Privacy-Preserving Process Mining: Differential Privacy for Event Logs;Privacy regulations for data can be regarded as a major driver for data sovereignty measures. A specific example for this is the case of event data that is recorded by information systems during the processing of entities in domains such as e-commerce or health care. Since such data, typically available in the form of event log files, contains personalized information on the specific processed entities, it can expose sensitive information that may be traced back to individuals. In recent years, a plethora of methods have been developed to analyse event logs under the umbrella of process mining. However, the impact of privacy regulations on the technical design as well as the organizational application of process mining has been largely neglected. This paper set out to develop a protection model for event data privacy which applies the well-established notion of differential privacy. Starting from common assumptions about the event logs used in process mining, this paper presents potential privacy leakages and means to protect against them. The paper also shows at which stages of privacy leakages a protection model for event logs should be used. Relying on this understanding, the notion of differential privacy for process discovery methods is instantiated, i.e., algorithms that aim at the construction of a process model from an event log. The general feasibility of our approach is demonstrated by its application to two publicly available real-life events logs.  2019, Springer Fachmedien Wiesbaden GmbH, ein Teil von Springer Nature.;Data protection
A human–machine interface based on eye tracking for controlling and monitoring a smart home using the internet of things;People with severe disabilities may have difficulties when interacting with their home devices due to the limitations inherent to their disability. Simple home activities may even be impossible for this group of people. Although much work has been devoted to proposing new assistive technologies to improve the lives of people with disabilities, some studies have found that the abandonment of such technologies is quite high. This work presents a new assistive system based on eye tracking for controlling and monitoring a smart home, based on the Internet of Things, which was developed following concepts of user-centered design and usability. With this system, a person with severe disabilities was able to control everyday equipment in her residence, such as lamps, television, fan, and radio. In addition, her caregiver was able to monitor remotely, by Internet, her use of the system in real time. Additionally, the user interface developed here has some functionalities that allowed improving the usability of the system as a whole. The experiments were divided into two steps. In the first step, the assistive system was assembled in an actual home where tests were conducted with 29 participants without disabilities. In the second step, the system was tested with online monitoring for seven days by a person with severe disability (end-user), in her own home, not only to increase convenience and comfort, but also so that the system could be tested where it would in fact be used. At the end of both steps, all the participants answered the System Usability Scale (SUS) questionnaire, which showed that both the group of participants without disabilities and the person with severe disabilities evaluated the assistive system with mean scores of 89.9 and 92.5, respectively.  2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Assistive technology
A recommender system of medical reports leveraging cognitive computing and frame semantics;During the last decades, a huge amount of data have been collected in clinical databases in the form of medical reports, laboratory results, treatment plans, etc., representing patients health status. Hence, digital information available for patient-oriented decision making has increased drastically but it is often not mined and analyzed in depth since: (i) medical documents are often unstructured and therefore difficult to analyze automatically, (ii) doctors traditionally rely on their experience to recognize an illness, give a diagnosis, and prescribe medications. However doctors experience can be limited by the cases they are treated so far and medication errors can occur frequently. In addition, it is generally hard and time-consuming inferring information for comparing unstructured data and evaluating similarities between heterogeneous resources. Technologies as Data Mining, Natural Language Processing, and Machine Learning can provide possibilities to explore and exploit potential knowledge from diagnosis history records and help doctors to prescribe medication correctly to decrease medication error effectively. In this paper, we design and implement a medical recommender system that is able to cluster a collection of medical reports on features detected by IBM Watson and Framester, two emerging tools from, respectively, Cognitive Computing and Frame Semantics, and then, giving a medical report from a specific patient as input, to recommend similar other medical reports from patients who had analogues symptoms. Experiments and results have proved the quality of the resulting clustering and recommendations, and the key role that these innovative services can play on the biomedical sector. The proposed system is able to classify new medical cases thus supporting physicians to take more correct and reliable actions about specific diagnosis and cares.  2019, Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature.;Biomedical text-mining
Measurement,  prediction,  and control of individual heart rate responses to exercise-basics and options for wearable devices;"The use of wearable devices or ""wearables"" in the physical activity domain has been increasing in the last years. These devices are used as training tools providing the user with detailed information about individual physiological responses and feedback to the physical training process. Advantages in sensor technology, miniaturization, energy consumption and processing power increased the usability of these wearables. Furthermore, available sensor technologies must be reliable, valid, and usable. Considering the variety of the existing sensors not all of them are suitable to be integrated in wearables. The application and development of wearables has to consider the characteristics of the physical training process to improve the effectiveness and efficiency as training tools. During physical training, it is essential to elicit individual optimal strain to evoke the desired adjustments to training. One important goal is to neither overstrain nor under challenge the user. Many wearables use heart rate as indicator for this individual strain. However, due to a variety of internal and external influencing factors, heart rate kinetics are highly variable making it difficult to control the stress eliciting individually optimal strain. For optimal training control it is essential to model and predict individual responses and adapt the external stress if necessary. Basis for this modeling is the valid and reliable recording of these individual responses. Depending on the heart rate kinetics and the obtained physiological data, different models and techniques are available that can be used for strain or training control. Aim of this review is to give an overview of measurement, prediction, and control of individual heart rate responses. Therefore, available sensor technologies measuring the individual heart rate responses are analyzed and approaches to model and predict these individual responses discussed. Additionally, the feasibility for wearables is analyzed.  2018 Ludwig, Hoffmann, Endler, Asteroth and Wiemeyer.";Heart rate control
A goal-driven evaluation method based on process mining for healthcare processes;As a business processes management technique, process mining (PM) has been applied in many domains in the last decade. In healthcare, where most processes are complex, variable, dynamic, and multi-disciplinary in nature, application of this technique is growing, yet challenging. Therefore, this study aims to introduce a goal-driven process evaluation method based on PM for healthcare processes. The proposed method comprises the following steps: defining goals and questions, data extraction, data preprocessing, log and pattern inspection, PM analysis and generating answers to questions, evaluating results, and initiating proposals for process improvements. The proposed method was applied in a case study on the surgery process of a university hospital in Turkey, which revealed for quantitative insights into the process. Bottlenecks and deviations that were crucial for determining measures (e.g., data and performance information) were identified to improve the efficiency of the surgery process. Our initial experience using the proposed method shows that it has potential for initiating process improvements by guiding the use of PM techniques in the healthcare domain.  2018 by the authors.;Clinical pathway
Chronic Diseases and Health Monitoring Big Data: A Survey;With the advancement of technology in data science and network technology, the world has stepped into the Era of Big Data, and the medical field is rich in data suitable for analysis. Thus, in recent years, there has been much research in medical big data, mainly targeting data collection, data analysis, and visualization. However, very few works provide a full survey of the medical big data on chronic diseases and health monitoring. This review investigates recent research efforts and conducts a comprehensive overview of the work on medical big data, especially as related to chronic diseases and health monitoring. It focuses on the full cycles of the big data processing, which includes medical big data preprocessing, big data tools and algorithms, big data visualization, and security issues in big data. It also attempts to combine common big data technologies with special medical needs by analyzing in detail existing works of medical big data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first survey that targets chronic diseases and health monitoring big data technologies.  2008-2011 IEEE.;Chronic diseases
An approach for developing indoor navigation systems for visually impaired people using Building Information Modeling;This article presents a Building Information Model (BIM), which describes the topology, geometry, and semantics of buildings;
Context-Aware Adaptive Framework for e-Health Monitoring;For improving e-health services, we propose a context-aware framework to monitor the activities of daily living of dependent persons. We define a strategy for generating long-term realistic scenarios and a framework containing an adaptive monitoring algorithm based on three approaches for optimizing resource usage. The used approaches provide a deep knowledge about the person's context by considering: the person's profile, the activities and the relationships between activities. We evaluate the performances of our framework and show its adaptability and significant reduction in network, energy and processing usage over a traditional monitoring implementation.  2015 IEEE.;Adaptive monitoring
Cyber-physical systems security: Limitations,  issues and future trends,  and implementations;Typically, Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) involve various interconnected systems, which can monitor and manipulate real objects and processes. They are closely related to Internet of Things (IoT) systems, except that CPS focuses on the interaction between physical, networking and computation processes. Their integration with IoT led to a new CPS aspect, the Internet of Cyber-Physical Things (IoCPT). The fast and significant evolution of CPS affects various aspects in people's way of life and enables a wider range of services and applications including e-Health, smart homes, e-Commerce, etc. However, interconnecting the cyber and physical worlds gives rise to new dangerous security challenges. Consequently, CPS security has attracted the attention of both researchers and industries. This paper surveys the main aspects of CPS and the corresponding applications, technologies, and standards. Moreover, CPS security vulnerabilities, threats and attacks are reviewed, while the key issues and challenges are identified. Additionally, the existing security measures are presented and analyzed while identifying their main limitations. Finally, several suggestions and recommendations are proposed benefiting from the lessons learned throughout this comprehensive review.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;attacks and issues
Security and privacy protection in cloud computing: Discussions and challenges;With the development of cloud computing, privacy security issues have become increasingly prominent, which is of concern to industry and academia. We review the research progress on privacy security issues from the perspective of several privacy security protection technologies in cloud computing. First, we introduce some privacy security risks of cloud computing and propose a comprehensive privacy security protection framework. Second, we show and discuss the research progress of several technologies, such as access control; Privacy security;" Trust""";
A systematic review of blockchain in healthcare: Frameworks,  prototypes;Blockchain, a form of distributed ledger technology has attracted the interests of stakeholders across several sectors including healthcare. Its' potential in the multi-stakeholder operated sector like health has been responsible for several investments, studies, and implementations. Electronic Health Records (EHR) systems traditionally used for the exchange of health information amongst healthcare stakeholders have been criticised for centralising power, failures and attack-points with exchange data custodians. EHRs have struggled in the face of multi-stakeholder and system requirements while adhering to security, privacy, ethical and other regulatory constraints. Blockchain is promising amongst others to address the many EHR challenges, primarily trustless and secure exchange of health information amongst stakeholders. Many blockchain-in-healthcare frameworks have been proposed; health information management; hospitals; mHealth; pharmaceutical technology;" telemedicine""";
Research streams on digital transformation from a holistic business perspective: a systematic literature review and citation network analysis;Digital transformation (DT) has become a buzzword, triggering different disciplines in research and influencing practice, which leads to independent research streams. Scholars investigate the antecedents, contingencies, and consequences of these disruptive technologies by examining the use of single technologies or of digitization, in general. Approaches are often very specialized and restricted to their domains. Thus, the immense breadth of technologies and their possible applications conditions a fragmentation of research, impeding a holistic view. With this systematic literature review, we aim to fill this gap in providing an overview of the different disciplines of DT research from a holistic business perspective. We identified the major research streams and clustered them with co-citation network analysis in nine main areas. Our research shows the main fields of interest in digital transformation research, overlaps of the research areas and fields that are still underrepresented. Within the business research areas, we identified three dominant areas in literature: finance, marketing, and innovation management. However, research streams also arise in terms of single branches like manufacturing or tourism. This study highlights these diverse research streams with the aim of deepening the understanding of digital transformation in research. Yet, research on DT still lacks in the areas of accounting, human resource management, and sustainability. The findings were distilled into a framework of the nine main areas for assisting the implications on potential research gaps on DT from a business perspective.  2019, The Author(s).;Citation-network analysis
Deep learning for monitoring of human gait: A review;The essential human gait parameters are briefly reviewed, followed by a detailed review of the state of the art in deep learning for the human gait analysis. The modalities for capturing the gait data are grouped according to the sensing technology: video sequences, wearable sensors, and floor sensors, as well as the publicly available datasets. The established artificial neural network architectures for deep learning are reviewed for each group, and their performance are compared with particular emphasis on the spatiotemporal character of gait data and the motivation for multi-sensor, multi-modality fusion. It is shown that by most of the essential metrics, deep learning convolutional neural networks typically outperform shallow learning models. In the light of the discussed character of gait data, this is attributed to the possibility to extract the gait features automatically in deep learning as opposed to the shallow learning from the handcrafted gait features.  2001-2012 IEEE.;Deep learning
Current status of use of big data and artificial intelligence in RMDs: A systematic literature review informing EULAR recommendations;Objective To assess the current use of big data and artificial intelligence (AI) in the field of rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases (RMDs). Methods A systematic literature review was performed in PubMed MEDLINE in November 2018, with key words referring to big data, AI and RMDs. All original reports published in English were analysed. A mirror literature review was also performed outside of RMDs on the same number of articles. The number of data analysed, data sources and statistical methods used (traditional statistics, AI or both) were collected. The analysis compared findings within and beyond the field of RMDs. Results Of 567 articles relating to RMDs, 55 met the inclusion criteria and were analysed, as well as 55 articles in other medical fields. The mean number of data points was 746 million (range 2000-5 billion) in RMDs, and 9.1 billion (range 100 000-200 billion) outside of RMDs. Data sources were varied: in RMDs, 26 (47%) were clinical, 8 (15%) biological and 16 (29%) radiological. Both traditional and AI methods were used to analyse big data (respectively, 10 (18%) and 45 (82%) in RMDs and 8 (15%) and 47 (85%) out of RMDs). Machine learning represented 97% of AI methods in RMDs and among these methods, the most represented was artificial neural network (20/44 articles in RMDs). Conclusions Big data sources and types are varied within the field of RMDs, and methods used to analyse big data were heterogeneous. These findings will inform a European League Against Rheumatism taskforce on big data in RMDs.  2019 Author(s) (or their employer(s)). Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.;artificial intelligence
Does your health really benefit from using a self-tracking device? Evidence from a longitudinal randomized control trial;The use of wearable self-tracking devices to increase health and well-being is on the rise;
Artificial intelligence enabled software-defined networking: A comprehensive overview;Software-defined networking (SDN) represents a promising networking architecture that combines central management and network programmability. SDN separates the control plane from the data plane and moves the network management to a central point, called the controller that can be programmed and used as the brain of the network. Recently, the research community has shown an increased tendency to benefit from the recent advancements in the artificial intelligence (AI) field to provide learning abilities and better decision making in SDN. In this study, the authors provide a detailed overview of the recent efforts to include AI in SDN. The study showed that the research efforts focused on three main sub-fields of AI namely: machine learning, meta-heuristics and fuzzy inference systems. Accordingly, in this work, the authors investigate their different application areas and potential use, as well as the improvements achieved by including AI-based techniques in the SDN paradigm.  The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2018;
Blockchains for secure digitized medicine;Blockchain as an emerging technology has been gaining in popularity, with more possible applications to utilize the technology in the near future. With the offer of a decentralized, distributed environment without the need for a third trusted party (TTP), blockchains are being used to solve issues in systems that are susceptible to cyberattacks. One possible field that could benefit from blockchains that researchers have been focusing on is healthcare. Current healthcare information systems face several challenges, such as fragmented patient data, centralized systems which are viewed as single points of attacks, and the lack of patient-oriented services. In this paper, we investigate and analyze recent literature related to the use of blockchains to tackle issues found in modern healthcare information systems. This is done to understand issues that researchers commonly focus on, to discover remaining areas of concern in any proposed solution, and to understand the possible directions of the integration of blockchains in healthcare and personalized medicine. Background information regarding blockchains and existing healthcare information systems is reviewed, followed by the methodology used in the preparation of this review, where the research questions to consider are stated. Afterwards, an analysis of the results is provided, concluding with a discussion of the remaining issues that need to be focused on, and how blockchains could benefit the healthcare sector and empower personalized medicine.  2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Blockchains
New Sensor and Wearable Technologies to Aid in the Diagnosis and Treatment Monitoring of Parkinson's Disease;Parkinson's disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the brain characterized by the impairment of the nigrostriatal system. This impairment leads to specific motor manifestations (i.e., bradykinesia, tremor, and rigidity) that are assessed through clinical examination, scales, and patient-reported outcomes. New sensor-based and wearable technologies are progressively revolutionizing PD care by objectively measuring these manifestations and improving PD diagnosis and treatment monitoring. However, their use is still limited in clinical practice, perhaps because of the absence of external validation and standards for their continuous use at home. In the near future, these systems will progressively complement traditional tools and revolutionize the way we diagnose and monitor patients with PD.  2019 by Annual Reviews All rights reserved.;biomedical
A glossary for big data in population and public health: Discussion and commentary on terminology and research methods;The volume and velocity of data are growing rapidly and big data analytics are being applied to these data in many fields. Population and public health researchers may be unfamiliar with the terminology and statistical methods used in big data. This creates a barrier to the application of big data analytics. The purpose of this glossary is to define terms used in big data and big data analytics and to contextualise these terms. We define the five Vs of big data and provide definitions and distinctions for data mining, machine learning and deep learning, among other terms. We provide key distinctions between big data and statistical analysis methods applied to big data. We contextualise the glossary by providing examples where big data analysis methods have been applied to population and public health research problems and provide brief guidance on how to learn big data analysis methods.  Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2017.;
Fog Computing Applications in Smart Cities: A Systematic Survey;Nowadays, the smart city is a topic that has attracted the attention of many researchers, engineers and even the public because of to its pervasive and vast effect on everyday life. The technologies used to realize the smart cities are often based on cloud computing. As a result, they have carried the limitations of cloud computing, such as unreliable latency, lack of mobility support, and location awareness. Fog computing provides different solutions to these problems. Although efforts have been done in the area of fog computing applications in smart cities, it is still difficult to find a systematic reliable survey that covers this area. This article aims to provide a comprehensive overview based on a systematic literature review of current works that have been done in the area of fog computing applications in smart cities. In addition, a different analytical comparison of related works, the trends, and future research directions are pointed out in this article.  2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Edge computing
A novel machine learning approach for high-performance diagnosis of premature internet addiction using the unfolded EEG spectra;Due to the increasing presence of internet-based applications in our private and professional environments, internet addiction (IA) has emerged as a universal issue today's society. Clinical diagnosis of IA is still in its beginnings, resulting in delays or failures in psychological interventions. Predictive healthcare analytics can increase the speed and robustness of diagnosis, resulting in faster preventive interventions. By unfolding the conventional frequency bandwidths into a fine-graded equidistant 88-point spectrum, we present a method for detecting premature IA. We identified the most predictive frequency sub-bands that differentiate healthy persons from people suffering from preliminary stages of IA (10.5-11 Hz, 21.5-22 Hz, 22.5-23 Hz). With a balanced accuracy of 94.17%, our results set a new benchmark in detecting IA using resting-state electroencephalography recordings. We provide evidence that IA can lead to structural changes in the brain and thus indicates the need for it to be considered alongside other generally recognized disorders.  2020 26th Americas Conference on Information Systems, AMCIS 2020. All rights reserved.;Electroencephalography
Ethics of artificial intelligence in radiology: summary of the joint European and North American multisociety statement;This is a condensed summary of an international multisociety statement on ethics of artificial intelligence (AI) in radiology produced by the ACR, European Society of Radiology, RSNA, Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine, European Society of Medical Imaging Informatics, Canadian Association of Radiologists, and American Association of Physicists in Medicine. AI has great potential to increase efficiency and accuracy throughout radiology, but also carries inherent pitfalls and biases. Widespread use of AI-based intelligent and autonomous systems in radiology can increase the risk of systemic errors with high consequence, and highlights complex ethical and societal issues. Currently, there is little experience using AI for patient care in diverse clinical settings. Extensive research is needed to understand how to best deploy AI in clinical practice. This statement highlights our consensus that ethical use of AI in radiology should promote well-being, minimize harm, and ensure that the benefits and harms are distributed among stakeholders in a just manner. We believe AI should respect human rights and freedoms, including dignity and privacy. It should be designed for maximum transparency and dependability. Ultimate responsibility and accountability for AI remains with its human designers and operators for the foreseeable future. The radiology community should start now to develop codes of ethics and practice for AI which promote any use that helps patients and the common good and should block use of radiology data and algorithms for financial gain without those two attributes.  2019, The Author(s).;Artificial Intelligence
Big Data and discrimination: perils  promises and solutions. A systematic review;Background: Big Data analytics such as credit scoring and predictive analytics offer numerous opportunities but also raise considerable concerns, among which the most pressing is the risk of discrimination. Although this issue has been examined before, a comprehensive study on this topic is still lacking. This literature review aims to identify studies on Big Data in relation to discrimination in order to (1) understand the causes and consequences of discrimination in data mining, (2) identify barriers to fair data-mining and (3) explore potential solutions to this problem. Methods: Six databases were systematically searched (between 2010 and 2017): PsychINDEX, SocIndex, PhilPapers, Cinhal, Pubmed and Web of Science. Results: Most of the articles addressed the potential risk of discrimination of data mining technologies in numerous aspects of daily life (e.g. employment, marketing, credit scoring). The majority of the papers focused on instances of discrimination related to historically vulnerable categories, while others expressed the concern that scoring systems and predictive analytics might introduce new forms of discrimination in sectors like insurance and healthcare. Discriminatory consequences of data mining were mainly attributed to human bias and shortcomings of the law;
An analytical model to minimize the latency in healthcare internet-of-things in fog computing environment;Fog computing (FC) is an evolving computing technology that operates in a distributed environment. FC aims to bring cloud computing features close to edge devices. The approach is expected to fulfill the minimum latency requirement for healthcare Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices. Healthcare IoT devices generate various volumes of healthcare data. This large volume of data results in high data traffic that causes network congestion and high latency. An increase in round-trip time delay owing to large data transmission and large hop counts between IoTs and cloud servers render healthcare data meaningless and inadequate for end-users. Time-sensitive healthcare applications require real-time data. Traditional cloud servers cannot fulfill the minimum latency demands of healthcare IoT devices and end-users. Therefore, communication latency, computation latency, and network latency must be reduced for IoT data transmission. FC affords the storage, processing, and analysis of data from cloud computing to a network edge to reduce high latency. A novel solution for the abovementioned problem is proposed herein. It includes an analytical model and a hybrid fuzzy-based reinforcement learning algorithm in an FC environment. The aim is to reduce high latency among healthcare IoTs, end-users, and cloud servers. The proposed intelligent FC analytical model and algorithm use a fuzzy inference system combined with reinforcement learning and neural network evolution strategies for data packet allocation and selection in an IoT–FC environment. The approach is tested on simulators iFogSim (Net-Beans) and Spyder (Python). The obtained results indicated the better performance of the proposed approach compared with existing methods.  2019 Shukla et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.;
A Blockchain-based and resource-aware process execution engine;Business Process Management provides concepts for enterprises to design, document and execute their business processes. Involved artefacts establish the basis for a profound enhancement of processes, like performance improvements or a substantiate assignment of employees (resources)to tasks. These artefacts comprise process models for documentation purposes or Workflow Management Systems for executing processes. Those concepts are adopted well within single companies but are barely implemented for inter-organizational processes reasoned in a lack of trust between participating business partners. For instance, questions like who the host of the workflow engine is and thus have sovereignty over the process execution remains open. Besides expensive third parties, we believe that Blockchain Technology bears potential to solve the lack of trust due to automated consensus finding. We present a Blockchain-based process engine guaranteeing a tamper-proof execution, which is both, highly scalable regarding the size of process models as well as capable of considering employees captured in the organizational perspective of the process model. Comparable approaches suffer from lack of trustworthiness either, are not applicable for large process models, or do not include organizational concerns.  2019 Elsevier B.V.;Blockchain
A review on the role of blockchain technology in the healthcare domain;Recently, there have been increasing calls for healthcare providers to provide controls for patients over their personal health records. Nevertheless, security issues concerning how different healthcare providers exchange healthcare information have caused a flop in the deployment of such systems. The ability to exchange data securely is important so that new borderless integrated healthcare services can be provided to patients. Due to its decentralized nature, blockchain technology is a suitable driver for the much-needed shift towards integrated healthcare, providing new insights and addressing some of the main challenges of many healthcare areas. Blockchain allows healthcare providers to record and manage peer-to-peer transactions through a network without central authority. In this paper, we discuss the concept of blockchain technology and hurdles in their adoption in the healthcare domain. Furthermore, a review is conducted on the latest implementations of blockchain technology in healthcare. Finally, a new case study of a blockchain-based healthcare platform is presented addressing the drawbacks of current designs, followed by recommendations for future blockchain researchers and developers.  2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Blockchain
A Systematic Review on Code Clone Detection;Code cloning refers to the duplication of source code. It is the most common way of reusing source code in software development. If a bug is identified in one segment of code, all the similar segments need to be checked for the same bug. Consequently, this cloning process may lead to bug propagation that significantly affects the maintenance cost. By considering this problem, code clone detection (CCD) appears as an active area of research. Consequently, there is a strong need to investigate the latest techniques, trends, and tools in the domain of CCD. Therefore, in this paper, we comprehensively inspect the latest tools and techniques utilized for the detection of code clones. Particularly, a systematic literature review (SLR) is performed to select and investigate 54 studies pertaining to CCD. Consequently, six categories are defined to incorporate the selected studies as per relevance, i.e., textual approaches (12), lexical approaches (8), tree-based approaches (3), metric-based approaches (7), semantic approaches (7), and hybrid approaches (17). We identified and analyzed 26 CCD tools, i.e., 13 existing and 13 proposed/developed. Moreover, 62 open-source subject systems whose source code is utilized for the CCD are presented. It is concluded that there exist several studies to detect type1, type2, type3, and type4 clones individually. However, there is a need to develop novel approaches with complete tool support in order to detect all four types of clones collectively. Furthermore, it is also required to introduce more approaches to simplify the development of a program dependency graph (PDG) while dealing with the detection of the type4 clones.  2013 IEEE.;CCD
Processing electronic medical records to improve predictive analytics outcomes for hospital readmissions;Hospital readmissions are costly but largely preventable. In recent years, many researchers have used predictive analytics to build models that can minimize the adverse economic and social consequences of readmissions in chronic diseases. Most of these studies, however, have focused on improving the results either through the development of better models or through employing richer data sets. A very small number of them have focused on a comprehensive data preprocessing to improve the efficacy of analytics methods for better predictions. In this study, we propose a new data processing approach that extracts individual- and database-level historical information from the medical records to improve the performance of readmission analytics. We test and validate this method using two rather large data sets that belong to chronic diseases with the highest rates of hospital readmissions. We conclude that proper processing of large clinical data sets with analytics and big data technologies can provide competitive advantages to health care organizations.  2018 Elsevier B.V.;Big data technologies
Oxygen saturation measurements in telemonitoring of patients with COPD: a systematic review;Introduction: Telemonitoring applications are expected to become a key component in future healthcare. Despite the frequent use of SpO2 measurements in telemonitoring of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), no profound overview is available about these measurements. Areas covered: A systematic search identified 71 articles that performed SpO2 measurements in COPD telemonitoring. The results indicate that long-term follow-up of COPD patients using daily SpO2 spot checks is practically feasible. Very few studies specified protocols for performing these measurements. In many studies, deviating SpO2 values were used to raise alerts that led to immediate action from healthcare professionals. However, little information was available about the exact implementation and performance of these alerts. Therefore, no firm conclusions can be drawn about the real value of SpO2 measurements. Future research could optimize performance of alerts using individualized, time-dependent thresholds or predictive algorithms to account for individual differences and SpO2 baseline changes. Additionally, the value of performing continuous measurements should be examined. Expert commentary: Standardization of the measurements, data science techniques and advancing technology can still boost performance of telemonitoring applications. All these opportunities should be thoroughly explored to assess the real value of SpO2 in COPD telemonitoring.  2017 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.;chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Machine learning techniques in eating behavior e-coaching: Balancing between generalization and personalization;The rise of internet and mobile technologies (such as smartphones) provide a harness of data and an opportunity to learn about peoples’ states, behavior, and context in regard to several application areas such as health. Eating behavior is an area that can benefit from the development of effective e-coaching applications which utilize psychological theories and data science techniques. In this paper, we propose a framework of how machine learning techniques can effectively be used in order to fully exploit data collected from a mobile application (“Think Slim”) which is designed to assess eating behavior using experience sampling methods. The overall goal is to analyze individual states of a person status (emotions, location, activity, etc.) and assess their impact on unhealthy eating. Building on data collected from different participants, a classification algorithm (decision tree tailored to longitudinal data) is used to warn people prior to a possible unhealthy eating event and a clustering algorithm (hierarchical agglomerative clustering) is used for profiling the participants and generalize for new users of the application. Finally, a framework to offer feedback via adaptive messages (intervention) and recommendations prior to possible unhealthy eating events is presented. Results from applying our methods reveal that participants can be clustered to six robust groups based on their eating behavior and that there are specific rules that discriminate which conditions lead to healthy versus unhealthy eating. Consequently, these rules can be utilized to provide adaptive semi-tailored feedback to users who, through this method, are assisted in learning under which conditions are more prone to unhealthy eating. Effectiveness of the approach is confirmed by observing a decreasing trend in rule activation towards the end of intervention period.  2017, The Author(s).;Adaptive feedback
Designing the health-related internet of things: Ethical principles and guidelines;The conjunction of wireless computing, ubiquitous Internet access, and the miniaturisation of sensors have opened the door for technological applications that can monitor health and well-being outside of formal healthcare systems. The health-related Internet of Things (H-IoT) increasingly plays a key role in health management by providing real-time tele-monitoring of patients, testing of treatments, actuation of medical devices, and fitness and well-being monitoring. Given its numerous applications and proposed benefits, adoption by medical and social care institutions and consumers may be rapid. However, a host of ethical concerns are also raised that must be addressed. The inherent sensitivity of health-related data being generated and latent risks of Internet-enabled devices pose serious challenges. Users, already in a vulnerable position as patients, face a seemingly impossible task to retain control over their data due to the scale, scope and complexity of systems that create, aggregate, and analyse personal health data. In response, the H-IoT must be designed to be technologically robust and scientifically reliable, while also remaining ethically responsible, trustworthy, and respectful of user rights and interests. To assist developers of the H-IoT, this paper describes nine principles and nine guidelines for ethical design of H-IoT devices and data protocols.  2017 by the author.;Data analytics
Feasibility of using microsoft kinect to assess upper limb movement in type III Spinal muscular atrophy patients;Although functional rating scales are being used increasingly as primary outcome measures in spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), sensitive and objective assessment of early-stage disease progression and drug efficacy remains challenging. We have developed a game based on the Microsoft Kinect sensor, specifically designed to measure active upper limb movement. An explorative study was conducted to determine the feasibility of this new tool in 18 ambulant SMA type III patients and 19 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. Upper limb movement was analysed elaborately through derived features such as elbow flexion and extension angles, arm lifting angle, velocity and acceleration. No significant differences were found in the active range of motion between ambulant SMA type III patients and controls. Hand velocity was found to be different but further validation is necessary. This study presents an important step in the process of designing and handling digital biomarkers as complementary outcome measures for clinical trials.  2017 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.;
Is it appropriate,  or ethical,  to use health data collected for the purpose of direct patient care to develop computerized predictive decision support tools?;The increasing use of clinical decision support systems (CDSS) to assist clinicians in decision-making is pushing the limits of information technology. The emergence of Electronic Health Records (EHR) coupled with enriched health information standards such as HL7 CDA, SNOMED, ICD-10 and LOINC have provided a rich environment for massive data collection and analysis by healthcare providers. This immense increase in data collection has also provided a gateway for the application of various data mining techniques on clinical datasets so as to measure health status (i.e. function, comfort and likelihood of dying) of patients. In measuring health status, many clinicians have opted to use CDSS to assist in decision-making and enhance clinical experience. However, even as the use of CDSS in clinicians' office continues to grow, the question that remains in the minds of many patients and the general public is whether it is appropriate, or ethical, for researchers to use health data collected for the purpose of direct patient care to develop computerized predictive decision support tool. In this paper, a systematic review is used to highlight the relevant technical barriers and ethical issues surrounding the secondary use of health data in developing CDSS.  2009 ITCH 2009 Steering Committee and IOS Press. All rights reserved.;CDSS
A survey of blockchain consensus algorithms performance evaluation criteria;How to reach an agreement in a blockchain network is a complex and important task that is defined as a consensus problem and has wide applications in reality including distributed computing, load balancing, and transaction validation in blockchains. Over recent years, many studies have been done to cope with this problem. In this paper, a comparative and analytical review on the state-of-the-art blockchain consensus algorithms is presented to enlighten the strengths and constraints of each algorithm. Based on their inherent specifications, each algorithm has a different domain of applicability that yields to propose several performance criteria for the evaluation of these algorithms. To overview and provide a basis of comparison for further work in the field, a set of incommensurable and conflicting performance evaluation criteria is identified and weighted by the pairwise comparison method. These criteria are classified into four categories including algorithms’ throughput, the profitability of mining, degree of decentralization and consensus algorithms vulnerabilities and security issues. Based on the proposed framework, the pros and cons of consensus algorithms are systematically analyzed and compared in order to provide a deep understanding of the existing research challenges and clarify the future study directions.  2020 Elsevier Ltd;Blockchain
Adhesive Biocomposite Electrodes on Sweaty Skin for Long-Term Continuous Electrophysiological Monitoring;Noninvasive on-skin electrodes record the electrical potential changes from human skin, which reflect body condition and are applied for healthcare, sports management, and modern lifestyle. However, current on-skin electrodes have poor conformal properties under sweaty condition in real-life because of decreased electrode-skin adhesion with sweat film at the interface. Here, we fabricated biocomposite electrodes based on silk fibroin (SF) through interfacial polymerization, which is applicable on sweaty skin. Interfacial polymerized conductive polypyrrole (PPy) and SF are structurally interlocked and endow the whole electrode with uniform stretchability. Existence of water results in similar Young's modulus of SF to the skin and enhanced interfacial adhesion. It keeps the electrodes conformal to skin under sweaty condition and allows reliable collection of ambulatory electrophysiological signals during sports and sweating. Wearable devices with these electrodes were used to acquire continuous and stable real-time electrocardiography (ECG) signals during running for 2 h. The collected signals can provide information for sports management and are also analyzed by artificial intelligence to show their potential for intelligent human emotion monitoring. Our strategy provides opportunities to record long-term continuous electrophysiological signals in real-life conditions for various smart monitoring systems.  2020 American Chemical Society.;
High-performance detection of epilepsy in seizure-free EEG recordings: A novel machine learning approach using very specific epileptic EEG sub-bands;We applied machine learning to diagnose epilepsy based on the fine-graded spectral analysis of seizure-free (resting state) EEG recordings. Despite using unspecific agglomerated EEG spectra, our fine-graded spectral analysis specifically identified the two EEG resting state sub-bands differentiating healthy people from epileptics (1.5-2 Hz and 11-12.5 Hz). The rigorous evaluation of completely unseen data of 100 EEG recordings (50 belonging to epileptics and the other 50 to healthy people) shows that the approach works successfully, achieving an outstanding accuracy of 99 percent, which significantly outperforms the current benchmark of 70% to 95% by a panel of up to three experienced neurologists. Our epilepsy diagnosis classifier can be implemented in modern EEG analysis devices, especially in intensive care units where early diagnosis and appropriate treatment are decisive in life and death scenarios and where physicians' error rates are particularly high. Our approach is accurate, robust, fast, and cost-efficient and substantially contributes to Information Systems research in healthcare. The approach is also of high practical and theoretical relevance.  40th International Conference on Information Systems, ICIS 2019. All rights reserved.;Electroencephalography
Intensive Care Unit Telemedicine in the Era of Big Data,  Artificial Intelligence;This article examines the history of the telemedicine intensive care unit (tele-ICU), the current state of clinical decision support systems (CDSS)in the tele-ICU, applications of machine learning (ML)algorithms to critical care, and opportunities to integrate ML with tele-ICU CDSS. The enormous quantities of data generated by tele-ICU systems is a major driver in the development of the large, comprehensive, heterogeneous, and granular data sets necessary to develop generalizable ML CDSS algorithms, and deidentification of these data sets expands opportunities for ML CDSS research.  2019 Elsevier Inc.;Clinical decision support systems
Data science algorithms and techniques for smart healthcare using iot and big data analytics;Smart healthcare network is an innovative process of synergizing the benefits of sensors, Internet of things (IoT), and big data analytics to deliver improved patient care while reducing the healthcare costs. In recent days, healthcare industry faces vast challenges to save the data generated and to process it in order to extract knowledge out of it. The increasing volume of healthcare data generated through IoT devices, electronic health, mobile health, and telemedicines screening requires the development of new methods and approaches for their handling. In this chapter, we briefly discuss some of the healthcare challenges and big data analytics evolution in this fast-growing area of research with a focus on those addressed to smart health care through remote monitoring. In order to monitor the healthcare conditions of an individual, support from sensor and IoT devices is essential. The objective of this study is to provide healthcare services to the diseased as well as healthy population through remote monitoring using intelligent algorithms, tools, and techniques with faster analysis and expert intervention for better treatment recommendations. The delivery of healthcare services has become fully advanced with integration of technologies. This study proposes a novel smart healthcare big data framework for remotely monitoring physical daily activities of healthy and unhealthy population. The framework is validated through a case study which monitors the physical activities of athletes with sensors placed on wrist, chest, and ankle. The sensors connected to the human body transmit the signals continuously to the receiver. On the other hand, at the receiver end, the signals that are stored and analyzed through big data analytics techniques and machine learning algorithms are used to recognize the activity. Our proposed framework predicts whether the player is active or inactive based on the physical activities. Our proposed model has provided an accuracy of 99.96% which can be adapted to remotely monitor health conditions of old patients in case of Alzheimer’s disease by caregivers, rehabilitation, obesity monitoring, remotely monitoring of sports persons physical exertion, and it can also be beneficial for remotely monitoring chronic diseases which require vital physical information, biological, and genetic data.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.;
A multistage protocol for aggregated queries in distributed cloud databases with privacy protection;This article is devoted to the novel situation, where a large distributed cloud database is a union of several separate databases belonging to individual database owners who are not allowed to transfer their data for storage in locations different from their already chosen separate cloud service providers. For example, a very large number of medical records may be stored in a distributed cloud database, which is a union of several separate databases from different hospitals, or even from different countries. The owners of the databases may need to provide answers to certain common aggregated queries using all information available without sharing or transferring all data. It is necessary to minimize the communication costs, improve efficiency, and comply with the legal requirements protecting the privacy of confidential data. In this situation, it is impossible to aggregate the whole database in one location, but effective methods for answers to the aggregated queries with privacy protection are required. To solve this important problem, the present article proposes a Multistage Separate Query Processing (MSQP) protocol employing homomorphic encryption with split keys. We show that our protocol can answer a large class of natural queries of practical significance. The running time of the MSQP protocol is O(d+[Formula presented]), where d is the number of database owners and m is the total number of records in the whole database. In practice, d is small, m can be very large, and so the running time is O(m). This means that the protocol is very efficient for large databases. It dramatically reduces the communication costs of computation and completely eliminates the need for exchange of confidential data. We define a new generalized additive homomorphic property and introduce a Multipart ElGamal Cryptosystem (MEC) with split keys, which enjoys this property. MEC is a novel modification of the ElGamal cryptosystem with split keys. This paper presents the results of extensive experiments evaluating the effectiveness of the MSQP protocol employing MEC and comparing it with MSQP employing the ElGamal cryptosystem, for a collection of publicly available medical datasets. The experiments evaluating our protocol on 11 real-life databases and a synthetic database demonstrate that the MSQP protocol employing MEC is more efficient than other options and can be recommended for practical implementations.  2018;Cloud services
DeepFog: Fog computing-based deep neural architecture for prediction of stress types,  diabetes and hypertension attacks;The use of wearable and Internet-of-Things (IoT) for smart and affordable healthcare is trending. In traditional setups, the cloud backend receives the healthcare data and performs monitoring and prediction for diseases, diagnosis, and wellness prediction. Fog computing (FC) is a distributed computing paradigm that leverages low-power embedded processors in an intermediary node between the client layer and cloud layer. The diagnosis for wellness and fitness monitoring could be transferred to the fog layer from the cloud layer. Such a paradigm leads to a reduction in latency at an increased throughput. This paper processes a fog-based deep learning model, DeepFog that collects the data from individuals and predicts the wellness stats using a deep neural network model that can handle heterogeneous and multidimensional data. The three important abnormalities in wellness namely, (i) diabetes;
Mining productive-associated periodic-frequent patterns in body sensor data for smart home care;The understanding of various health-oriented vital sign data generated from body sensor networks (BSNs) and discovery of the associations between the generated parameters is an important task that may assist and promote important decision making in healthcare. For example, in a smart home scenario where occupants’ health status is continuously monitored remotely, it is essential to provide the required assistance when an unusual or critical situation is detected in their vital sign data. In this paper, we present an efficient approach for mining the periodic patterns obtained from BSN data. In addition, we employ a correlation test on the generated patterns and introduce productive-associated periodic-frequent patterns as the set of correlated periodic-frequent items. The combination of these measures has the advantage of empowering healthcare providers and patients to raise the quality of diagnosis as well as improve treatment and smart care, especially for elderly people in smart homes. We develop an efficient algorithm named PPFP-growth (Productive Periodic-Frequent Pattern-growth) to discover all productive-associated periodic frequent patterns using these measures. PPFP-growth is efficient and the productiveness measure removes uncorrelated periodic items. An experimental evaluation on synthetic and real datasets shows the efficiency of the proposed PPFP-growth algorithm, which can filter a huge number of periodic patterns to reveal only the correlated ones.  2017 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Body sensor network
Exploiting cognitive computing and frame semantic features for biomedical document clustering;Nowadays, there are plenty of text documents in different domains that have unstructured content which makes them hard to analyze automatically. In particular, in the medical domain, this problem is even more stressed and is earning more and more attention. Medical reports may contain relevant information that can be employed, among many useful applications, to build predictive systems able to classify new medical cases thus supporting physicians to take more correct and reliable actions about diagnosis and cares. It is generally hard and time consuming inferring information for comparing unstructured data and evaluating similarities between various resources. In this work we show how it is possible to cluster medical reports, based on features detected by using two emerging tools, IBM Watson and Framester, from a collection of text documents. Experiments and results have proved the quality of the resulting clusterings and the key role that these services can play.;Biomedical documents
Improving Brain E-Health Services via High-Performance EEG Classification with Grouping Bayesian Optimization;Online electroencephalograph (EEG) classification is a core service of recently booming brain e-health, but its performance often becomes unstable because (1) conventional end-to-end models (e.g., deep neural network, DNNDNN) largely remain static, while brain states of diseases are highly dynamic and exhibits significant individuality;
MRI signatures of brain age and disease over the lifespan based on a deep brain network and 14 468 individuals worldwide;Deep learning has emerged as a powerful approach to constructing imaging signatures of normal brain ageing as well as of various neuropathological processes associated with brain diseases. In particular, MRI-derived brain age has been used as a comprehensive biomarker of brain health that can identify both advanced and resilient ageing individuals via deviations from typical brain ageing. Imaging signatures of various brain diseases, including schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease, have also been identified using machine learning. Prior efforts to derive these indices have been hampered by the need for sophisticated and not easily reproducible processing steps, by insufficiently powered or diversified samples from which typical brain ageing trajectories were derived, and by limited reproducibility across populations and MRI scanners. Herein, we develop and test a sophisticated deep brain network (DeepBrainNet) using a large (n = 11 729) set of MRI scans from a highly diversified cohort spanning different studies, scanners, ages and geographic locations around the world. Tests using both cross-validation and a separate replication cohort of 2739 individuals indicate that DeepBrainNet obtains robust brain-age estimates from these diverse datasets without the need for specialized image data preparation and processing. Furthermore, we show evidence that moderately fit brain ageing models may provide brain age estimates that are most discriminant of individuals with pathologies. This is not unexpected as tightly-fitting brain age models naturally produce brain-age estimates that offer little information beyond age, and loosely fitting models may contain a lot of noise. Our results offer some experimental evidence against commonly pursued tightly-fitting models. We show that the moderately fitting brain age models obtain significantly higher differentiation compared to tightly-fitting models in two of the four disease groups tested. Critically, we demonstrate that leveraging DeepBrainNet, along with transfer learning, allows us to construct more accurate classifiers of several brain diseases, compared to directly training classifiers on patient versus healthy control datasets or using common imaging databases such as ImageNet. We, therefore, derive a domain-specific deep network likely to reduce the need for application-specific adaptation and tuning of generic deep learning networks. We made the DeepBrainNet model freely available to the community for MRI-based evaluation of brain health in the general population and over the lifespan.  The Author(s) (2020). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved.;Brain age
Statistical explorations and univariate timeseries analysis on covid-19 datasets to understand the trend of disease spreading and death;“Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)”, the novel coronavirus, is responsible for the ongoing worldwide pandemic. “World Health Organization (WHO)” assigned an “International Classification of Diseases (ICD)” code—“COVID-19”-as the name of the new disease. Coronaviruses are generally transferred by people and many diverse species of animals, including birds and mammals such as cattle, camels, cats, and bats. Infrequently, the coronavirus can be transferred from animals to humans, and then propagate among people, such as with “Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV)”, “Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV)”, and now with this new virus, namely “SARS-CoV-2”, or human coronavirus. Its rapid spreading has sent billions of people into lockdown as health services struggle to cope up. The COVID-19 outbreak comes along with an exponential growth of new infections, as well as a growing death count. A major goal to limit the further exponential spreading is to slow down the transmission rate, which is denoted by a “spread factor (f)”, and we proposed an algorithm in this study for analyzing the same. This paper addresses the potential of data science to assess the risk factors correlated with COVID-19, after analyzing existing datasets available in “ourworldindata.org (Oxford University database)”, and newly simulated datasets, following the analysis of different univariate “Long Short Term Memory (LSTM)” models for forecasting new cases and resulting deaths. The result shows that vanilla, stacked, and bidirectional LSTM models outperformed multilayer LSTM models. Besides, we discuss the findings related to the statistical analysis on simulated datasets. For correlation analysis, we included features, such as external temperature, rainfall, sunshine, population, infected cases, death, country, population, area, and population density of the past three months - January, February, and March in 2020. For univariate timeseries forecasting using LSTM, we used datasets from 1 January 2020, to 22 April 2020.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Algorithm; Measurable sensor data; Population; Public health; Python; Regression; RNN; Spread factor; Statistics;" Transmission rate"""
A survey of context-aware access control mechanisms for cloud and fog networks: Taxonomy and open research issues;Over the last few decades, the proliferation of the Internet of Things (IoT) has produced an overwhelming flow of data and services, which has shifted the access control paradigm from a fixed desktop environment to dynamic cloud environments. Fog computing is associated with a new access control paradigm to reduce the overhead costs by moving the execution of application logic from the centre of the cloud data sources to the periphery of the IoT-oriented sensor networks. Indeed, accessing information and data resources from a variety of IoT sources has been plagued with inherent problems such as data heterogeneity, privacy, security and computational overheads. This paper presents an extensive survey of security, privacy and access control research, while highlighting several specific concerns in a wide range of contextual conditions (e.g., spatial, temporal and environmental contexts) which are gaining a lot of momentum in the area of industrial sensor and cloud networks. We present different taxonomies, such as contextual conditions and authorization models, based on the key issues in this area and discuss the existing context-sensitive access control approaches to tackle the aforementioned issues. With the aim of reducing administrative and computational overheads in the IoT sensor networks, we propose a new generation of Fog-Based Context-Aware Access Control (FB-CAAC) framework, combining the benefits of the cloud, IoT and context-aware computing;
Securing internet of medical things systems: Limitations,  issues and recommendations;Traditional health-care systems suffer from new challenges associated with the constant increase in the number of patients. In order to address this issue, and to increase the accuracy, reliability, efficiency, and effectiveness of the health-care domain, the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) was proposed. IoMT can be considered as an enhancement and investment to respond more effectively and efficiently to patients’ needs. However, IoMT suffers from different issues and challenges such as the lack of security and privacy measures, in addition to the necessary training and awareness. In this paper, we highlight the importance of implementing the right security measures and the required training skills, in order to enhance the immunity of IoMT against cyber-attacks. Moreover, we review the main IoMT security and privacy issues, and the existing security solutions. These solutions are classified as cryptographic or non-cryptographic. Then, the different solutions are analyzed and compared in terms of computational complexity and required resources. It is important to note that the security measures for IoMT exhibit a trade-off between the security level and the system performance, especially in the rise of digital healthcare v4.0 era. Next, we discuss the appropriate security solutions such as lightweight cryptographic algorithms, and protocols that attempt to reduce the overhead in terms of computations and resources. This leads to the conclusion that there is a need to design an efficient intrusion detection/prevention system that cooperates with dynamic shadow honeypots. Finally, we propose a security solution, which is divided into five different layers to detect and prevent attacks, in addition to reducing/correcting the damage of these known attacks and preserving the patients’ privacy. However, it should be noted that zero-day attacks and exploits are still the main challenging issue that surrounds IoMT.  2019 Elsevier B.V.;Healthcare
A multiperiod hybrid decision support model for medical diagnosis and treatment based on similarities and three-way decision theory;Patients always want a precise diagnosis and appropriate treatment advice when they are diagnosed with a disease. Furthermore, the original information about certain features and symptoms appears in different forms, and the effect of time is always ignored in the process of diagnosis. To overcome these defects, this paper develops a systematic multiperiod hybrid decision support model, which combines the similarity measurement and three-way decision theory to provide prediction and treatment advice for patients under the fuzzy environment. This multiperiod hybrid decision support model, which considers the effect of time, including transformation module, multiperiod integration module, similarity module, prediction module, and three-way decision module, provides disease prediction and advice on treatment based on similarities and three-way decision theory. To validate this model, we construct an illustration composed of four cases, and this ultimately shows that MPH-SDM can effectively support patients' disease diagnoses and treatment.  2019 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd;decision support model
Power Consumption Analysis,  Measurement, Management,  and Issues: A State-of-the-Art Review of Smartphone Battery and Energy Usage;The advancement and popularity of smartphones have made it an essential and all-purpose device. But lack of advancement in battery technology has held back its optimum potential. Therefore, considering its scarcity, optimal use and efficient management of energy are crucial in a smartphone. For that, a fair understanding of a smartphone's energy consumption factors is necessary for both users and device manufacturers, along with other stakeholders in the smartphone ecosystem. It is important to assess how much of the device's energy is consumed by which components and under what circumstances. This paper provides a generalized, but detailed analysis of the power consumption causes (internal and external) of a smartphone and also offers suggestive measures to minimize the consumption for each factor. The main contribution of this paper is four comprehensive literature reviews on: 1) smartphone's power consumption assessment and estimation (including power consumption analysis and modelling); power consumption estimation; power consumption modelling;" power management""";
Sensors of smart devices in the internet of everything (IOE) era: Big opportunities and massive doubts;Smart device industry allows developers and designers to embed different sensors, processors, and memories in small-size electronic devices. Sensors are added to enhance the usability of these devices and improve the quality of experience through data collection and analysis. However, with the era of big data and machine learning, sensors' data may be processed by different techniques to infer various hidden information. The extracted information may be beneficial to device users, developers, and designers to enhance the management, operation, and development of these devices. However, the extracted information may be used to compromise the security and the privacy of humans in the era of Internet of Everything (IoE). In this work, we attempt to review the process of inferring meaningful data from smart devices' sensors, especially, smartphones. In addition, different useful machine learning applications based on smartphones' sensors data are shown. Moreover, different side channel attacks utilizing the same sensors and the same machine learning algorithms are overviewed.  2019 Mohammad Masoud et al. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.;
Making effective use of healthcare data using data-to-text technology;Healthcare organizations are in a continuous effort to improve health outcomes, reduce costs, and enhance patient experience of care. Data is essential to measure and help achieving these improvements in healthcare delivery. Consequently, a data influx from various clinical, financial, and operational sources is now overtaking healthcare organizations and their patients. The effective use of this data, however, is a major challenge. Clearly, text is an important medium to make data accessible. Financial reports are produced to assess healthcare organizations on some key performance indicators to steer their healthcare delivery. Similarly, at a clinical level, data on patient status is conveyed by means of textual descriptions to facilitate patient review, shift handover, and care transitions. Likewise, patients are informed about data on their health status and treatments via text, in the form of reports, or via e-health platforms by their doctors. Unfortunately, such text is the outcome of a highly labor-intensive process if it is done by healthcare professionals. It is also prone to incompleteness and subjectivity and hard to scale up to different domains, wider audiences, and varying communication purposes. Data-to-text is a recent breakthrough technology in artificial intelligence which automatically generates natural language in the form of text or speech from data. This chapter provides a survey of data-to-text technology, with a focus on how it can be deployed in a healthcare setting. It will (1) give an up-to-date synthesis of data-to-text approaches, (2) give a categorized overview of use cases in healthcare, (3) seek to make a strong case for evaluating and implementing data-to-text in a healthcare setting, and (4) highlight recent research challenges.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.;
Semantic web meets internet of things and web of things;An ever growing interest and wide adoption of Internet of Things (IoT) and Web technologies are unleashing a true potential of designing a broad range of high-quality consumer applications. Smart cities, smart buildings, and e-health are among various application domains which are currently benefiting and will continue to benefit from IoT and Web technologies in a foreseeable future. Similarly, semantic technologies have proven their effectiveness in various domains and a few among multiple challenges which semantic Web technologies are addressing are to (i) mitigate heterogeneity by providing semantic inter-operability, (ii) facilitate easy integration of data application, (iii) deduce and extract new knowledge to build applications providing smart solutions, and (iv) facilitate inter-operability among various data processes including representation, management and storage of data. In this tutorial, our focus will be on the combination of Web technologies, Semantic Web, and IoT technologies and we will present to our audience that how a merger of these technologies is leading towards an evolution from IoT to Web of Things (WoT) to Semantic Web of Things. This tutorial will introduce the basics of Internet of Things, Web of Things and Semantic Web and will demonstrate tools and techniques designed to enable the rapid development of semantics-based Web of Things applications. One key aspect of this tutorial is to familiarize its audience with the open source tools designed by different semantic Web, IoT and WoT based projects and provide the audience a rich hands-on experience to use these tools and build smart applications with minimal efforts. Thus, reducing the learning curve to its maximum. We will showcase real-world use case scenarios which are designed using semantically-enabled WoT frameworks (e.g. CityPulse, FIESTA-IoT and M3). 2017 International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2), published under Creative Commons CC BY 4.0 License.;Data Interoperability
Adaptive monitoring: A systematic mapping;Context: Adaptive monitoring is a method used in a variety of domains for responding to changing conditions. It has been applied in different ways, from monitoring systems’ customization to re-composition, in different application domains. However, to the best of our knowledge, there are no studies analyzing how adaptive monitoring differs or resembles among the existing approaches. Objective: To characterize the current state of the art on adaptive monitoring, specifically to: (a) identify the main concepts in the adaptive monitoring topic; State of the art;" Systematic mapping study""";
An overview of semantic interoperability ontologies and frameworks for IoT;Interoperability is one of the key challenges that needs to be addressed to realize the vision of the Internet of Things (IoT). Achieving interoperability in IoT will allow billions of devices to communicate and exchange information to perform jobs. Formalized ways are required to express needs and capabilities of these devices as well as services to be offered by the devices and these can be achieved by using semantics. Semantic interoperability is thus defined as unambiguous access and interpretation of data by different stakeholders. The paper presents the challenges and current solutions of semantic interoperability. It also discusses the limitations of the current solutions in IoT and recommends a way forward.  2018 IEEE.;Internet of things
Cost efficient edge intelligence framework using docker containers;The emergence of edge computing has its basis in the integration of the Internet of Things (IoT) with the Cloud computing. In order to make it possible, management technologies of data centers have to be combined with significantly more limited devices. The Docker technology, which provides a very lightweight and effective virtualization solution, can be utilized to manage, deploy and distribute edge/cloud applications onto clusters (that, in our case, will be composed by lightweight and small board devices-such as Raspberry Pi). We apply this on the human activity identification scenario. These types of edge devices can be very useful especially in cases when the combination of low costs and robustness is desirable due to various reasons and conditions. In our work, we propose and analyze a framework based on the distributed edge/cloud paradigm. It is able to provide an advantageous combination of various benefits and lower costs of data processing performed at the edge instead of central servers. Support Vector Machine (SVM) has been utilized for recognizing human activity via the proposed framework. The results of the use case are presented in detail in this paper along with the simulated experiment.  2018 IEEE.;Containers
Data and Decision Intelligence for Human-in-the-Loop Cyber-Physical Systems: Reference Model  Recent Progresses and Challenges;With the rapid development of sensing technology, Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) are connecting our real-world and cyber spaces by real-time situation awareness and intelligent control. In this process, one of the major challenge is how to make fast, accurate and intelligent decisions based on high-dimension, speed and volume sensing data stream. In this paper, we put human into the traditional CPS data process model and formulate a closed-loop computing paradigm for CPS data and decision intelligence. We propose a human-in-the-loop reference model for CPS, which extends the traditional cyber-physical interaction into a closed-loop process based on cyber, physical and human factors. We define the key features of human-in-the-loop CPS, summarize it as three aspects: semantic, interactive, iterative and analyze the major challenges from the perspective of data characteristics. Recent progresses in three typical application domains are reviewed and examined for their decision models and whether they have solved the target issues of human-in-the-loop CPS. According to the review and comparison, the paper finally summarizes several key future opportunities to establish an intelligent human-in-the-loop CPS.  2017, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.;Cyber-physical systems
A two-step approach for mining patient treatment pathways in administrative healthcare databases;Clustering electronic medical records allows the discovery of information on healthcare practices. Entries in such medical records are usually composed of a succession of diagnostics or therapeutic steps. The corresponding processes are complex and heterogeneous since they depend on medical knowledge integrating clinical guidelines, the physician's individual experience, and patient data and conditions. To analyze such data, we are first proposing to cluster medical visits, consultations, and hospital stays into homogeneous groups, and then to construct higher-level patient treatment pathways over these different groups. These pathways are then also clustered to distill typical pathways, enabling interpretation of clusters by experts. This approach is evaluated on a real-world administrative database of elderly people in Québec suffering from heart failures.  2018 Elsevier B.V.;Healthcare databases
Recommender System Lets Coaches Identify and Help Athletes Who Begin Losing Motivation;This article presents a novel approach to monitoring athletes' behavioral changes to predict a decline in motivation. When the system detects such a decline, it refers the athlete to her coach, along with a concise explanation of the detected behavioral changes. The coach thus has all the information needed for a prompt, targeted intervention.  1970-2012 IEEE.;e-coaching
The influence of patient portals on users’ decision making is insufficiently investigated: A systematic methodological review;Background Patient portals are considered valuable conduits for supporting patients’ self-management. However, it is unknown why they often fail to impact on health care processes and outcomes. This may be due to a scarcity of robust studies focusing on the steps that are required to induce improvement: users need to effectively interact with the portal (step 1) in order to receive information (step 2), which might influence their decision-making (step 3). We aimed to explore this potential knowledge gap by investigating to what extent each step has been investigated for patient portals, and explore the methodological approaches used. Methods We performed a systematic literature review using Coiera's information value chain as a guiding theoretical framework. We searched MEDLINE and Scopus by combining terms related to patient portals and evaluation methodologies. Two reviewers selected relevant papers through duplicate screening, and one extracted data from the included papers. Results We included 115 articles. The large majority (n = 104) evaluated aspects related to interaction with patient portals (step 1). Usage was most often assessed (n = 61), mainly by analysing system interaction data (n = 50), with most authors considering participants as active users if they logged in at least once. Overall usability (n = 57) was commonly assessed through non-validated questionnaires (n = 44). Step 2 (information received) was investigated in 58 studies, primarily by analysing interaction data to evaluate usage of specific system functionalities (n = 34). Eleven studies explicitly assessed the influence of patient portals on patients’ and clinicians’ decisions (step 3). Conclusions Whereas interaction with patient portals has been extensively studied, their influence on users’ decision-making remains under-investigated. Methodological approaches to evaluating usage and usability of portals showed room for improvement. To unlock the potential of patient portals, more (robust) research should focus on better understanding the complex process of how portals lead to improved health and care.  2017;Computers/utilisation [MeSH]
Security and Trust in Blockchains: Architecture,  Key Technologies,  and Open Issues;As a new promising distributed technology, blockchains have been widely applied since its inception. Its decentralization feature reduces the reliance on the trusted authorities and third parties. It can well solve the problem of data being tampered and increase data sharing. However, a blockchain system faces various security and trust issues, such as attacks against consensus mechanisms and propagation processes, which may make it store malicious information or delay data propagation. The work discusses the basic architecture of blockchains as well as its potential security and trust issues at data, network, consensus, smart contract, and application layers. Then, the related literature work is analyzed in terms of the issues at these layers. Some open issues are presented and discussed.  2014 IEEE.;Accounting
Consolidation of clinical microbiology laboratories and introduction of transformative technologies;Clinical microbiology is experiencing revolutionary advances in the deployment of molecular, genome sequencing-based, and mass spectrometry-driven detection, identification, and characterization assays. Laboratory automation and the linkage of information systems for big(ger) data management, including artificial intelligence (AI) approaches, also are being introduced. The initial optimism associated with these developments has now entered a more reality-driven phase of reflection on the significant challenges, complexities, and health care benefits posed by these innovations. With this in mind, the ongoing process of clinical laboratory consolidation, covering large geographical regions, represents an opportunity for the efficient and cost-effective introduction of new laboratory technologies and improvements in translational research and development. This will further define and generate the mandatory infrastructure used in validation and implementation of newer high-throughput diagnostic approaches. Effective, structured access to large numbers of well-documented biobanked biological materials from networked laboratories will release countless opportunities for clinical and scientific infectious disease research and will generate positive health care impacts. We describe why consolidation of clinical microbiology laboratories will generate quality benefits for many, if not most, aspects of the services separate institutions already provided individually. We also define the important role of innovative and large-scale diagnostic platforms. Such platforms lend themselves particularly well to computational (AI)-driven genomics and bioinformatics applications. These and other diagnostic innovations will allow for better infectious disease detection, surveillance, and prevention with novel translational research and optimized (diagnostic) product and service development opportunities as key results.  2020 American Society for Microbiology.;Artificial intelligence
Lightweight authentication protocol for M2M communications of resource-constrained devices in industrial internet of things;The Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) consists of sensors, networks, and services to connect and control production systems. Its benefits include supply chain monitoring and machine failure detection. However, it has many vulnerabilities, such as industrial espionage and sabotage. Furthermore, many IIoT devices are resource-constrained, which impedes the use of traditional security services for them. Authentication allows devices to be confident of each other’s identity, preventing some security attacks. Many authentication protocols have been proposed for IIoT;
A comprehensive analysis of healthcare big data management,  analytics and scientific programming;Healthcare systems are transformed digitally with the help of medical technology, information systems, electronic medical records, wearable and smart devices, and handheld devices. The advancement in the medical big data, along with the availability of new computational models in the field of healthcare, has enabled the caretakers and researchers to extract relevant information and visualize the healthcare big data in a new spectrum. The role of medical big data becomes a challenging task in the form of storage, required information retrieval within a limited time, cost efficient solutions in terms care, and many others. Early decision making based healthcare system has massive potential for dropping the cost of care, refining quality of care, and reducing waste and error. Scientific programming play a significant role to overcome the existing issues and future problems involved in the management of large scale data in healthcare, such as by assisting in the processing of huge data volumes, complex system modelling, and sourcing derivations from healthcare data and simulations. Therefore, to address this problem efficiently a detailed study and analysis of the available literature work is required to facilitate the doctors and practitioners for making the decisions in identifying the disease and suggest treatment accordingly. The peer reviewed reputed journals are selected for the accumulated of published research work during the period ranges from 2015 - 2019 (a portion of 2020 is also included). A total of 127 relevant articles (conference papers, journal papers, book section, and survey papers) are selected for the assessment and analysis purposes. The proposed research work organizes and summarizes the existing published research work based on the research questions defined and keywords identified for the search process. This analysis on the existence research work will help the doctors and practitioners to make more authentic decisions, which ultimately will help to use the study as evidence for treating patients and suggest medicines accordingly.  2013 IEEE.;Big data
A survey of blockchain enabled cyber-physical systems;Cyber-physical systems (CPS) is a setup that controls and monitors the physical world around us. The advancement of these systems needs to incorporate an unequivocal spotlight on making these systems efficient. Blockchains and their inherent combination of consensus algorithms, distributed data storage, and secure protocols can be utilized to build robustness and reliability in these systems. Blockchain is the underlying technology behind bitcoins and it provides a decentralized framework to validate transactions and ensure that they cannot be modified. By distributing the role of information validation across the network peers, blockchain eliminates the risks associated with a centralized architecture. It is the most secure validation mechanism that is efficient and enables the provision of financial services, thereby giving users more freedom and power. This upcoming technology provides internet users with the capability to create value and authenticate digital information. It has the capability to revolutionize a diverse set of business applications, ranging from sharing economy to data management and prediction markets. In this paper, we present a holistic survey of various applications of CPS where blockchain has been utilized. Smart grids, health-care systems, and industrial production processes are some of the many applications that can benefit from the blockchain technology and will be discussed in the paper.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Bitcoin
Digital Innovations for Global Mental Health: Opportunities for Data Science,  Task Sharing,  and Early Intervention;Purpose: Globally, individuals living with mental disorders are more likely to have access to a mobile phone than mental health care. In this commentary, we highlight opportunities for expanding access to and use of digital technologies to advance research and intervention in mental health, with emphasis on the potential impact in lower resource settings. Recent findings: Drawing from empirical evidence, largely from higher income settings, we considered three emerging areas where digital technology will potentially play a prominent role: supporting methods in data science to further our understanding of mental health and inform interventions, task sharing for building workforce capacity by training and supervising non-specialist health workers, and facilitating new opportunities for early intervention for young people in lower resource settings. Challenges were identified related to inequities in access, threats of bias in big data analyses, risks to users, and need for user involvement to support engagement and sustained use of digital interventions. Summary: For digital technology to achieve its potential to transform the ways we detect, treat, and prevent mental disorders, there is a clear need for continued research involving multiple stakeholders, and rigorous studies showing that these technologies can successfully drive measurable improvements in mental health outcomes.  2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Artificial intelligence
Ethics of Artificial Intelligence in Radiology: Summary of the Joint European and North American Multisociety Statement;This is a condensed summary of an international multisociety statement on ethics of artificial intelligence (AI) in radiology produced by the ACR, European Society of Radiology, RSNA, Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine, European Society of Medical Imaging Informatics, Canadian Association of Radiologists, and American Association of Physicists in Medicine. AI has great potential to increase efficiency and accuracy throughout radiology, but it also carries inherent pitfalls and biases. Widespread use of AI-based intelligent and autonomous systems in radiology can increase the risk of systemic errors with high consequence and highlights complex ethical and societal issues. Currently, there is little experience using AI for patient care in diverse clinical settings. Extensive research is needed to understand how to best deploy AI in clinical practice. This statement highlights our consensus that ethical use of AI in radiology should promote well-being, minimize harm, and ensure that the benefits and harms are distributed among stakeholders in a just manner. We believe AI should respect human rights and freedoms, including dignity and privacy. It should be designed for maximum transparency and dependability. Ultimate responsibility and accountability for AI remains with its human designers and operators for the foreseeable future. The radiology community should start now to develop codes of ethics and practice for AI that promote any use that helps patients and the common good and should block use of radiology data and algorithms for financial gain without those two attributes.  2019 The Author(s);Artificial intelligence
Linking Big Data and Prediction Strategies: Tools,  Pitfalls,  and Lessons Learned;"Objectives: Modern critical care amasses unprecedented amounts of clinical data - so called ""big data"" - on a minute-by-minute basis. Innovative processing of these data has the potential to revolutionize clinical prognostics and decision support in the care of the critically ill but also forces clinicians to depend on new and complex tools of which they may have limited understanding and over which they have little control. This concise review aims to provide bedside clinicians with ways to think about common methods being used to extract information from clinical big datasets and to judge the quality and utility of that information. Data Sources: We searched the free-access search engines PubMed and Google Scholar using the MeSH terms ""big data"", ""prediction"", and ""intensive care"" with iterations of a range of additional potentially associated factors, along with published bibliographies, to find papers suggesting illustration of key points in the structuring and analysis of clinical ""big data,"" with special focus on outcomes prediction and major clinical concerns in critical care. Study Selection: Three reviewers independently screened preliminary citation lists. Data Extraction: Summary data were tabulated for review. Data Synthesis: To date, most relevant big data research has focused on development of and attempts to validate patient outcome scoring systems and has yet to fully make use of the potential for automation and novel uses of continuous data streams such as those available from clinical care monitoring devices. Conclusions: Realizing the potential for big data to improve critical care patient outcomes will require unprecedented team building across disparate competencies. It will also require clinicians to develop statistical awareness and thinking as yet another critical judgment skill they bring to their patients' bedsides and to the array of evidence presented to them about their patients over the course of care.  2019 Lippincott Williams and Wilkins. All rights reserved.";big data
Big Data Features,  Applications,  and Analytics in Cardiology - A Systematic Literature Review;In today's digital world the information surges with the widespread use of the internet and global communication systems. Healthcare systems are also facing digital transformations with the enhancement in the utilization of healthcare information systems, electronic records in medical, wearable, smart devices, handheld devices, and so on. A bulk of data is produced from these digital transformations. The recent increase in medical big data and the development of computational techniques in the field of cardiology enables researchers and practitioners to extract and visualize medical big data in a new spectrum. The role of medical big data in cardiology becomes a challenging task. Early decision making in cardiac healthcare system has massive potential for dropping the cost of care, refining quality of care, and reducing waste and error. Therefore, to facilitate this process a detailed report of the existing literature will be feasible to help the doctors and practitioners in decision making for the purpose of identifying and treating cardiac diseases. This detailed study will summarize results from the existing literature on big data in the field cardiac disease. This research uses the systematic literature protocol as presented by Kitchenham et al. The data was collected from the published materials from 2008 to 2018 as conference or journal publications, books, magazines and other online sources. 190 papers were included relying on the defined inclusion, exclusion, and checking the quality criteria. The current study helped to identify medical big data features, the application of medical big data, and the analytics of the big data in cardiology. The results of the proposed research shows that several studies exist that are associated to medical big data specifically to cardiology. This research summarizes and organizes the existing literature based on the defined keywords and research questions. The analysis will help doctors to make more authentic decisions, which ultimately will help to use the study as evidence for treating patients with heart related diseases.  2013 IEEE.;analytics in cardiology
Towards an efficient and Energy-Aware mobile big health data architecture;Background and objectives: Mobile and ubiquitous devices are everywhere, generating an exorbitant amount of data. New generations of healthcare systems are using mobile devices to continuously collect large amounts of different types of data from patients with chronic diseases. The challenge with such Mobile Big Data in general, is how to meet the growing performance demands of the mobile resources handling these tasks, while simultaneously minimizing their consumption. Methods: This research proposes a scalable architecture for processing Mobile Big Data. The architecture is developed around three new algorithms for the effective use of resources in performing mobile data processing and analytics: mobile resources optimization, mobile analytics customization, and mobile offloading. The mobile resources optimization algorithm monitors resources and automatically switches off unused network connections and application services whenever resources are limited. The mobile analytics customization algorithm attempts to save energy by customizing the analytics processes through the implementation of some data-aware schemes. Finally, the mobile offloading algorithm uses some heuristics to intelligently decide whether to process data locally, or delegate it to a cloud back-end server. Results: The three algorithms mentioned above are tested using Android-based mobile devices on real Electroencephalography (EEG) data streams retrieved from sensors and an online data bank. Results show that the three combined algorithms proved their effectiveness in optimizing the resources of mobile devices in handling, processing, and analyzing EEG data. Conclusion: We developed an energy-efficient model for Mobile Big Data which addressed key limitations in mobile device processing and analytics and reduced execution time and limited battery resources. This was supported with the development of three new algorithms for the effective use of resources, energy saving, parallel processing and analytics customization.  2018;Analytics customization
Capabilities and advantages of cloud computing in the implementation of Electronic Health Record;Background: With regard to the high cost of the Electronic Health Record (EHR), in recent years the use of new technologies, in particular cloud computing, has increased. The purpose of this study was to review systematically the studies conducted in the field of cloud computing. Methods: The present study was a systematic review conducted in 2017. Search was performed in the Scopus, Web of Sciences, IEEE, Pub Med and Google Scholar databases by combination keywords. From the 431 article that selected at the first, after applying the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 27 articles were selected for surveyed. Data gathering was done by a self-made check list and was analyzed by content analysis method. Results: The finding of this study showed that cloud computing is a very widespread technology. It includes domains such as cost, security and privacy, scalability, mutual performance and interoperability, implementation platform and independence of Cloud Computing, ability to search and exploration, reducing errors and improving the quality, structure, flexibility and sharing ability. It will be effective for electronic health record. Conclusion: According to the findings of the present study, higher capabilities of cloud computing are useful in implementing EHR in a variety of contexts. It also provides wide opportunities for managers, analysts and providers of health information systems. Considering the advantages and domains of cloud computing in the establishment of HER, it is recommended to use this technology.  2018 Maryam Ahmadi, Nasim Aslani.;Advantages
Validation of a method for the estimation of energy expenditure during physical activity using a mobile device accelerometer;The main goal of this paper consists on the adaption and validation of a method for the measurement of the energy expenditure during physical activities. Sensors available in a mobile device, e.g., a smartphone, a smartwatch, or others, allow the capture of several signals, which may be used to the estimation of the energy expenditure. The adaption consists in the comparison between the units of the data acquired by a tri-axial accelerometer and a mobile device accelerometer. The tests were performed by healthy people with ages between 12 and 50 years old that performed several activities, such as standing, gym (walking), climbing stairs, walking, jumping, running, playing tennis, and squatting, with a mobile device on the waist. The validation of the method showed that the energy expenditure is underestimated and super estimated in some cases, but with reliable results. The creation of a validated method for the measurement of energy expenditure during physical activities capable for the implementation in a mobile application is an important issue for increase the acceptance of the mobile applications in the market. As verified the results obtained are around 124.6 kcal/h, for walking activity, and 149.7 kcal/h, for running activity.  2018 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.;accelerometer
Big data for urban sustainability: A human-centered perspective;This book presents a practical framework for the application of big data, cloud, and pervasive and complex systems to sustainable solutions for urban environmental challenges. It covers the technologies, potential, and possible and impact of big data on energy efficiency and the urban environment. The book first introduces key aspects of big data, cloud services, pervasive computing, and mobile technologies from a pragmatic design perspective, including sample open source firmware. Cloud services, mobile and embedded platforms, interfaces, operating system design methods, networking, and middleware are all considered. The authors then explore in detail the framework, design principles, architecture and key components of developing energy systems to support sustainable urban environments. The included case study provides a pathway to improve the eco-efficiency of urban transport, demonstrating how to design an energy efficient next generation urban navigation system by leveraging vast cloud data sets on user-behavior. Ultimately, this resource maps big data’s pivotal intersection with rapid global urbanization along the path to a sustainable future.  Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2018.;Big data energy applications
Using big data analytics to extract disease surveillance information from point of care diagnostic machines;This paper explains a novel approach for knowledge discovery from data generated by Point of Care (POC) devices. A very important element of this type of knowledge extraction is that the POC generated data would never be identifiable, thereby protecting the rights and the anonymity of the individual, whilst still allowing for vital population-level evidence to be obtained. This paper also reveals a real-world implementation of the novel approach in a big data analytics system. Using Internet of Things (IoT) enabled POC devices and the big data analytics system, the data can be collected, stored, and analyzed in batch and real-time modes to provide a detailed picture of a healthcare system as well to identify high-risk populations and their locations. In addition, the system offers benefits to national health authorities in forms of optimized resource allocation (from allocating consumables to finding the best location for new labs) thus supports efficient and timely decision-making processes.  2017 Elsevier B.V.;Big data analytics
Can health 2.0 address critical healthcare challenges? Insights from the case of how online social networks can assist in combatting the obesity epidemic;"One of the serious concerns in healthcare in this 21st century is obesity. While the causes of obesity are multifaceted, social networks have been identified as one of the most important dimensions of people's social environment that may influence the adoption of many behaviours, including health-promoting behaviours. In this article, we examine the possibility of harnessing the appeal of online social networks to address the obesity epidemic currently plaguing society. Specifically, a design science research methodology is adopted to design, implement and test the Health 2.0 application called ""Calorie Cruncher"". The application is designed specifically to explore the influence of online social networks on individual's health-related behaviour. In this regard, pilot data collected based on qualitative interviews indicate that online social networks may influence health-related behaviours in several ways. Firstly, they can influence people's norms and value system that have an impact on their health-related behaviours. Secondly, social control and pressure of social connections may also shape health-related behaviours, and operate implicitly when people make food selection decisions. Thirdly, social relationships may provide emotional support. Our study has implications for research and practice. From a theoretical perspective, the article inductively identifies three factors that influence specific types of health outcomes in the context of obesity. From a practical perspective, the study underscores the benefits of adopting a design science methodology to design and implement a technology solution for a healthcare issue as well as the key role for online social media to assist with health and wellness management and maintenance.  2017 Hacker, Wickramasinghe & Durst.";Design science methodology
Follow #eHealth2011: Measuring the role and effectiveness of online and social media in increasing the outreach of a scientific conference;Background: Social media promotion is increasingly adopted by organizers of industry and academic events;
Machine learning approaches to automated medical decision support systems;This chapter provides an overview of the Machine Learning (ML) concepts in the clinical field which data may be collected, either by Health Care Professionals (HCP) or patients. These data may include activities and medication reminders, objective measurement of physiological parameters, feedback based on observed patterns, questionnaires and scores that require computational processes that give rise to useful information capable of supporting clinical decision making. The chapter describes ML in terms of learning concepts emphasizing the following approaches: supervised, unsupervised, semi-supervised, and reinforcement learning. The principles of concept classification are explained and the mathematical concepts of several methodologies are presented, such as neural networks and support vector machine among other techniques. Finally, a case study based on a radial basis function neural network aiming at the estimation of ECG waveform is presented. The proposed method reveals its suitability to support HCP on clinical decisions and practices.  2015, IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
A Scalable Smartwatch-Based Medication Intake Detection System Using Distributed Machine Learning;Poor Medication adherence causes significant economic impact resulting in hospital readmission, hospital visits and other healthcare costs. The authors developed a smartwatch application and a cloud based data pipeline for developing a user-friendly medication intake monitoring system that can contribute to improving medication adherence. The developed Android smartwatch application collects activity sensor data using accelerometer and gyroscope. The cloud-based data pipeline includes distributed data storage, distributed database management system and distributed computing frameworks in order to build a machine learning model which identifies activity types using sensor data. With the proposed sensor data extraction, preprocessing and machine learning algorithms, this study successfully achieved a high F1 score of 0.977 with 13.313 seconds of training time and 0.139 seconds for testing.  2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Cloud computing
Data Security and Privacy Protection for Cloud Storage: A Survey;The new development trends including Internet of Things (IoT), smart city, enterprises digital transformation and world's digital economy are at the top of the tide. The continuous growth of data storage pressure drives the rapid development of the entire storage market on account of massive data generated. By providing data storage and management, cloud storage system becomes an indispensable part of the new era. Currently, the governments, enterprises and individual users are actively migrating their data to the cloud. Such a huge amount of data can create magnanimous wealth. However, this increases the possible risk, for instance, unauthorized access, data leakage, sensitive information disclosure and privacy disclosure. Although there are some studies on data security and privacy protection, there is still a lack of systematic surveys on the subject in cloud storage system. In this paper, we make a comprehensive review of the literatures on data security and privacy issues, data encryption technology, and applicable countermeasures in cloud storage system. Specifically, we first make an overview of cloud storage, including definition, classification, architecture and applications. Secondly, we give a detailed analysis on challenges and requirements of data security and privacy protection in cloud storage system. Thirdly, data encryption technologies and protection methods are summarized. Finally, we discuss several open research topics of data security for cloud storage.  2013 IEEE.;access control
Computer-aided diagnosis of skin cancer: A review;Cancer is currently one of the main health issues in the world. Among different varie-ties of cancers, skin cancer is the most common cancer in the world and accounts for 75% of the world's cancer. Indeed, skin cancer involves abnormal changes in the outer layer of the skin. Alt-hough most people with skin cancer recover, it is one of the major concerns of people due to its high prevalence. Most types of skin cancers grow only locally and invade adjacent tissues, but some of them, especially melanoma (cancer of the pigment cells), which is the rarest type of skin cancer, may spread through the circulatory system or lymphatic system and reach the farthest points of the body. Many papers have been reviewed about the application of image processing in cancer detection. In this paper, the automatic skin cancer detection and also different steps of such a process have been discussed based on the implantation capabilities.  2020 Bentham Science Publishers.;Computer-aided diagnosis
Artificial intelligence with multi-functional machine learning platform development for better healthcare and precision medicine;Precision medicine is one of the recent and powerful developments in medical care, which has the potential to improve the traditional symptom-driven practice of medicine, allowing earlier interventions using advanced diagnostics and tailoring better and economically personalized treatments. Identifying the best pathway to personalized and population medicine involves the ability to analyze comprehensive patient information together with broader aspects to monitor and distinguish between sick and relatively healthy people, which will lead to a better understanding of biological indicators that can signal shifts in health. While the complexities of disease at the individual level have made it difficult to utilize healthcare information in clinical decision-making, some of the existing constraints have been greatly minimized by technological advancements. To implement effective precision medicine with enhanced ability to positively impact patient outcomes and provide real-time decision support, it is important to harness the power of electronic health records by integrating disparate data sources and discovering patient-specific patterns of disease progression. Useful analytic tools, technologies, databases, and approaches are required to augment networking and interoperability of clinical, laboratory and public health systems, as well as addressing ethical and social issues related to the privacy and protection of healthcare data with effective balance. Developing multifunctional machine learning platforms for clinical data extraction, aggregation, management and analysis can support clinicians by efficiently stratifying subjects to understand specific scenarios and optimize decision-making. Implementation of artificial intelligence in healthcare is a compelling vision that has the potential in leading to the significant improvements for achieving the goals of providing real-time, better personalized and population medicine at lower costs. In this study, we focused on analyzing and discussing various published artificial intelligence and machine learning solutions, approaches and perspectives, aiming to advance academic solutions in paving the way for a new data-centric era of discovery in healthcare.  2020 The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press.;
Ethics of Artificial Intelligence in Radiology: Summary of the Joint European and North American Multisociety Statement;This is a condensed summary of an international multisociety statement on ethics of artificial intelligence (AI) in radiology produced by the ACR, European Society of Radiology, RSNA, Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine, European Society of Medical Imaging Informatics, Canadian Association of Radiologists, and American Association of Physicists in Medicine. AI has great potential to increase efficiency and accuracy throughout radiology, but it also carries inherent pitfalls and biases. Widespread use of AI-based intelligent and autonomous systems in radiology can increase the risk of systemic errors with high consequence and highlights complex ethical and societal issues. Currently, there is little experience using AI for patient care in diverse clinical settings. Extensive research is needed to understand how to best deploy AI in clinical practice. This statement highlights our consensus that ethical use of AI in radiology should promote well-being, minimize harm, and ensure that the benefits and harms are distributed among stakeholders in a just manner. We believe AI should respect human rights and freedoms, including dignity and privacy. It should be designed for maximum transparency and dependability. Ultimate responsibility and accountability for AI remains with its human designers and operators for the foreseeable future. The radiology community should start now to develop codes of ethics and practice for AI that promote any use that helps patients and the common good and should block use of radiology data and algorithms for financial gain without those two attributes.  2019 The Author(s);Artificial intelligence
Wearables,  artificial intelligence,  and the future of healthcare;Common underlying risk factors for chronic diseases include physical inactivity accompanying modern sedentary lifestyle, unhealthy eating habits, and tobacco use. Interestingly, these prominent risk factors fall under what is referred to as modifiable behavioral risk factors, emphasizing the importance of self-care to improve wellness and prevent the onset of many debilitating conditions. In that regard, advances in wearable devices capable of pervasively collecting data about oneself coupled with the analytic capability provided by artificial intelligence and machine learning can potentially upend how we care for ourselves. This chapter aims to assess the current state and future implications of using big data and artificial intelligence in wearables for health and wellbeing. The results of the systematic review capture key developments and emphasize the potential for leveraging AI and wearables for inducing a paradigm shift in improving health and wellbeing.  2020, IGI Global.;
The Future of Digital Psychiatry;Purpose of Review: Treatments in psychiatry have been rapidly changing over the last century, following the development of psychopharmacology and new research achievements. However, with advances in technology, the practice of psychiatry in the future will likely be influenced by new trends based on computerized approaches and digital communication. We examined four major areas that will probably impact on the clinical practice in the next few years: telepsychiatry; Social media;" Telepsychiatry""";
Integrating an openEHR-based personalized virtual model for the ageing population within HBase 08 Information and Computing Sciences 0806 Information Systems 11 Medical and Health Sciences 1117 Public Health and Health Services;Background: Frailty is a common clinical syndrome in ageing population that carries an increased risk for adverse health outcomes including falls, hospitalization, disability, and mortality. As these outcomes affect the health and social care planning, during the last years there is a tendency of investing in monitoring and preventing strategies. Although a number of electronic health record (EHR) systems have been developed, including personalized virtual patient models, there are limited ageing population oriented systems. Methods: We exploit the openEHR framework for the representation of frailty in ageing population in order to attain semantic interoperability, and we present the methodology for adoption or development of archetypes. We also propose a framework for a one-to-one mapping between openEHR archetypes and a column-family NoSQL database (HBase) aiming at the integration of existing and newly developed archetypes into it. Results: The requirement analysis of our study resulted in the definition of 22 coherent and clinically meaningful parameters for the description of frailty in older adults. The implemented openEHR methodology led to the direct use of 22 archetypes, the modification and reuse of two archetypes, and the development of 28 new archetypes. Additionally, the mapping procedure led to two different HBase tables for the storage of the data. Conclusions: In this work, an openEHR-based virtual patient model has been designed and integrated into an HBase storage system, exploiting the advantages of the underlying technologies. This framework can serve as a base for the development of a decision support system using the openEHR's Guideline Definition Language in the future.  2019 The Author(s).;Electronic health records
Privacy implications of accelerometer data: A review of possible inferences;Accelerometers are sensors for measuring acceleration forces. They can be found embedded in many types of mobile devices, including tablet PCs, smartphones, and smartwatches. Some common uses of built-in accelerometers are automatic image stabilization, device orientation detection, and shake detection. In contrast to sensors like microphones and cameras, accelerometers are widely regarded as not privacy-intrusive. This sentiment is reflected in protection policies of current mobile operating systems, where third-party apps can access accelerometer data without requiring security permission. It has been shown in experiments, however, that seemingly innocuous sensors can be used as a side channel to infer highly sensitive information about people in their vicinity. Drawing from existing literature, we found that accelerometer data alone may be sufficient to obtain information about a device holder’s location, activities, health condition, body features, gender, age, personality traits, and emotional state. Acceleration signals can even be used to uniquely identify a person based on biometric movement patterns and to reconstruct sequences of text entered into a device, including passwords. In the light of these possible inferences, we suggest that accelerometers should urgently be re-evaluated in terms of their privacy implications, along with corresponding adjustments to sensor protection mechanisms.  2019 Copyright is held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.;Accelerometer
Emerging trends in IoT and big data analytics for biomedical and health care technologies;The recent revolutions in Internet of Things (IoT) and big data analytics have unlocked promising possibilities in biomedical and health care technologies. The current chapter deals with theoretical, methodological, validated, and empirical concepts with exciting examples related to the subject. First, the application of IoT and big data in the analysis of a vast image database generated every day from various sources by big data combined with machine-learning algorithms and other forms of artificial intelligence, to generate structured information for application in remote diagnostics, is explained with examples. Further emerging trends of telemedicine using artificial intelligence technique in robotics health care have been discussed. The flexibility and adaptability of AI-based telemedicine provide the endless supports for health care development can be observed in the literature. The advancement of telerobotic surgery and the importance of the Internet of Robotic Things (IoRT) have been discussed briefly. Furthermore, details on wearable devices already available targeting the biomedical and health care applications that are capable of collecting, analyzing by standard protocols by machine intelligence for predictions of health-related issues are described. Lastly, the final expansion and evolution of these technologies in the modern health care system and biomedical research, starting with personalized drug designing to targeted drug delivery and beyond it, is described.  2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.;Bigdata
Trust Analysis for Information Concerning Food-Related Risks;In last years many business activities, scientific researches and applications exploit social networks as important sources for gathering data with different aims. Knowing the habits and preferences of user can be useful for different purposes, firstly to build marketing and advertising campaigns, but also to analyse other social phenomena for statistics, demography or security reasons. Thanks to their wide adoption among people, social networks are becoming the first media adopted to publish and share real-time news about happening events and, consequently, also the main media to retrieve information on what happens around you. Taking into account this consideration, in this paper we investigate a methodology for semantic analysis of textual information obtained from social media streams, in order to perform an early identification of food contaminations. As a case study, we consider a set of reviews gathered from the social network Yelp [26], on which we perform the textual analysis foreseen in the proposed methodology.  2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;
Computational sleep behavior analysis: A survey;Sleep is a key marker of health, as it can either be a cause or a consequence. It is traditionally studied in clinical environments using dedicated medical devices. Recent technological developments, e.g., in sensing and data analysis, have led to new approaches for sleep monitoring and assessment, which are attracting increasing attention in the emerging domain of personalized smart healthcare. Nevertheless, a high-level overview of technology-enabled research on sleep that can inform related communities of the latest developments is lacking. In this paper, we present a comprehensive review to examine the current status of various aspects of technology-based sleep research. We first characterize sleep behavior and key areas of sleep assessment, and we introduce a general review of the methodologies used in this domain. We review the major technological methods and trends associated with sleep monitoring, data collection and sleep behavior analysis, from which strengths and weaknesses are highlighted. Finally, we also discuss challenges and promising directions for future research.  2013 IEEE.;actigraphy; sleep positions; sleep stage classification;" wearables""";
Semantic privacy-preserving framework for electronic health record linkage;The combination of digitized health information and web-based technologies offers many possibilities for data analysis and business intelligence. In the healthcare and biomedical research domain, applications depending on electronic health records (EHRs) identify privacy preservation as a major concern. Existing solutions cannot always satisfy the evolving research demands such as linking patient records across organizational boundaries due to the potential for patient re-identification. In this work, we show how semantic methods can be applied to support the formulation and enforcement of access control policy whilst ensuring that privacy leakage can be detected and prevented. The work is illustrated through a case study associated with the Australasian Diabetes Data Network (ADDN – www.addn.org.au), the national paediatric type-1 diabetes data registry, and the Australian Urban Research Infrastructure Network (AURIN – www.aurin.org.au) platform that supports Australia-wide access to urban and built environment data sets. We demonstrate that through extending the eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML) with semantic capabilities, finer-grained access control encompassing data risk disclosure mechanisms can be supported. We discuss the contributions that can be made using this approach to socio-economic development and political management within business systems, and especially those situations where secure data access and data linkage is required.  2017 Elsevier Ltd;
A Lightweight and Flexible Encryption Scheme to Protect Sensitive Data in Smart Building Scenarios;Smart buildings represent key environments to encourage the growth of more sustainable and efficient cities. With the strong development of the Internet of Things (IoT), the integration of heterogeneous physical devices fosters the emergence of data-driven services to make more effective decisions accordingly. However, the need for sharing large amounts of data could help to infer users' sensitive information, such as their daily habits, thus harming their privacy. Under these premises, this paper introduces an encryption scheme based on the lightness of the symmetric cryptography, and the expressiveness of attribute-based encryption. Our proposal aims to ensure only authorised services will be able to access specific pieces of data, so that users' privacy is not compromised, while scalability and efficiency are provided. The resulting scheme has been deployed on a real smart building scenario, and validation results demonstrate its suitability to protect large amounts of sensitive data on IoT-enabled buildings.  2013 IEEE.;Attribute-based encryption
Data quality challenges for person-generated health and wellness data;Person-generated health data (PGHD) generated by wearable devices and smartphone applications are growing rapidly. There is increasing effort to employ advanced analytical methods to generate insights from these data in order to help people change their lifestyle and improve their health. PGHD - such as step counts, exercise logs, nutritional diaries, and sleep records - are often incomplete, inaccurate, and collected over too short a duration. Insufficient user engagement with wearable and mobile technologies, as well as lack of sensor validation, standardization of data collection, transparency of data processing assumptions, and accessibility to relevant data from consumer-grade sensors, also negatively affects data quality. The literature on data quality for PGHD is sparse and fragmented, providing little guidance to data analysts on how to assess and prioritize data quality concerns. In this paper, we summarize our experiences as data analysts working with PGHD, outline some of the challenges in using PGHD for insight generation, and discuss some established methods for addressing these challenges. We review the literature on PGHD data quality, identify the major stakeholders in the PGHD ecosystem, and apply an established data quality framework to present the most relevant data quality challenges for each stakeholder.  1957-2012 IBM.;
Predictive computing and information security;This book describes various methods and recent advances in predictive computing and information security. It highlights various predictive application scenarios to discuss these breakthroughs in real-world settings. Further, it addresses state-of-art techniques and the design, development and innovative use of technologies for enhancing predictive computing and information security. Coverage also includes the frameworks for eTransportation and eHealth, security techniques, and algorithms for predictive computing and information security based on Internet-of-Things and Cloud computing. As such, the book offers a valuable resource for graduate students and researchers interested in exploring predictive modeling techniques and architectures to solve information security, privacy and protection issues in future communication.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2017. All rights reserved.;
Internet of things and smart environments: Assistive technologies for disability,  dementia,  and aging;This book is focused on the Internet of Things (IoT) services and smart environments that can be of assistance to the elderly and individuals living with dementia or some sensory impairment. The book outlines the requirements of the systems that aim to furnish some digital sensory or cognitive assistance to the individuals and their caregivers. Internet of Things and Smart Environments: Assistive Technologies for Disability, Dementia, and Aging covers the important evolutions of the IoT, the sensors, actuators, wireless communication and pervasive computing systems, and other enabling technologies that power up this megatrend infrastructure. The use of the IoT-based systems in improving the conventional assistive technologies and provisions of ambient assisted living are also covered. The book takes an impartial, and yet holistic, view to providing research insights and inspirations for more development works in the areas related to assistive IoT. It will show the potentials of using normally available interactive devices, like smartphones or smart TVs, which can be supplemented with low-cost gadgets or apps to provide assistive capabilities. It aims to accentuate the need for taking a comprehensive and combinatory view of the comprising topics and approaches that are based on the visions and ideas from all stakeholders. The book will examine these points and considerations to conclude with recommendations for future development works and research directions. This book can be of value to a diverse array of audience. The researchers and developers in healthcare and medicine, aged care and disability services, as well as those working in the IoT-related fields, may find many parts of this book useful and stimulating. It can be of great value to postgraduate and research students working in these areas. It can also be adapted for use in upper-level classroom courses relevant to communication and smart technologies, IoT applications, and assistive technologies. Many parts of the book can be of interest to the elderly and individuals living with a disability, as well as their families and caregivers. From an industry perspective, it can be of interest to software, hardware, and particularly app developers working on the IoT applications, smart homes and environments, and assistive technologies for the elderly and people living with disability or dementia.  Springer International Publishing AG 2017. All rights reserved.;
A semi-supervised privacy-preserving clustering algorithm for healthcare;With the proliferation of healthcare data, the cloud mining technology for E-health services and applications has become a hot research topic. While on the other hand, these rapidly evolving cloud mining technologies and their deployment in healthcare systems also pose potential threats to patient’s data privacy. In order to solve the privacy problem in the cloud mining technique, this paper proposes a semi-supervised privacy-preserving clustering algorithm. By employing a small amount of supervised information, the method first learns a Large Margin Nearest Cluster metric using convex optimization. Then according to the trained metric, the method imposes multiplicative perturbation on the original data, which can change the distribution shape of the original data and thus protect the privacy information as well as ensuring high data usability. The experimental results on the brain fiber dataset provided by the 2009 PBC demonstrated that the proposed method could not only protect data privacy towards secure attacks, but improve the clustering purity.  2015, Springer Science+Business Media New York.;Brain fiber
Semantic-based privacy protection of electronic health records for collaborative research;Combined health information and web-based technologies can be used to support healthcare and research activities associated with electronic health records (EHRs). EHRs used for research purposes demand privacy, confidentiality and all information governance concerns are addressed. However, existing solutions are unable to meet the evolving research needs especially when supporting data access and linkage across organization boundaries. In this work, we show how semantic methods can aid in the specification and enforcement of policies for privacy protection. This is illustrated through a case study associated with the Australasian Diabetes Data Network (ADDN), the national paediatric type-1 diabetes data registry and the Australian Urban Research Infrastructure Network (AURIN) platform that supports Australia-wide access to urban and built environment data sets. Specifically we show that through extending the eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML) with semantic capabilities, we are able to support fine-grained privacy-preserving policies leveraging semantic reasoning that is not directly available in XACML or other existing security policy specification languages.  2016 IEEE.;Electronic health records (EHRs)
Formalized probability theory and applications using theorem proving;Scientists and engineers often have to deal with systems that exhibit random or unpredictable elements and must effectively evaluate probabilities in each situation. Computer simulations, while the traditional tool used to solve such problems, are limited in the scale and complexity of the problems they can solve. Formalized Probability Theory and Applications Using Theorem Proving discusses some of the limitations inherent in computer systems when applied to problems of probabilistic analysis, and presents a novel solution to these limitations, combining higher-order logic with computer-based theorem proving. Combining practical application with theoretical discussion, this book is an important reference tool for mathematicians, scientists, engineers, and researchers in all STEM fields.  2015 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Architecture for clinical decision support system (CDSS) using high risk pregnancy ontology;Shortage of medical professionals in the rural area has been one of the reasons why maternal mortality is still very high. Midwife family program had been introduced to overcome the shortage but the lack of skills in recognizing high risk pregnancy becomes another factor of high maternal mortality rate. A good prenatal care program will help to identify the danger in time and provide early management. Therefore, this paper provides solution by introducing a new architecture of clinical decision support system (CDSS) in the domain of high risk pregnancy. The proposed architecture is composed of seven main components. The ontological approach was used to develop the knowledge repository in the CDSS architecture. The need for CDSS was investigated through interview session, questionnaire distribution and observation. In addition, the comparison with other CDSSs approach is also highlighted in the paper.  2006-2015 Asian Research Publishing Network (ARPN).;Decision support system
Ethical dilemmas posed by mobile health and machine learning in psychiatry research [Les dilemmes éthiques posés par la santé mobile et l'apprentissage automatique dans la recherche en psychiatrie] [Los dilemas éticos planteados por la salud móvil y el aprendizaje automático dentro de la investigación en psiquiatría];The application of digital technology to psychiatry research is rapidly leading to new discoveries and capabilities in the field of mobile health. However, the increase in opportunities to passively collect vast amounts of detailed information on study participants coupled with advances in statistical techniques that enable machine learning models to process such information has raised novel ethical dilemmas regarding researchers’duties to: (i) monitor adverse events and intervene accordingly;
Security,  Privacy and Risks Within Smart Cities: Literature Review and Development of a Smart City Interaction Framework;The complex and interdependent nature of smart cities raises significant political, technical, and socioeconomic challenges for designers, integrators and organisations involved in administrating these new entities. An increasing number of studies focus on the security, privacy and risks within smart cities, highlighting the threats relating to information security and challenges for smart city infrastructure in the management and processing of personal data. This study analyses many of these challenges, offers a valuable synthesis of the relevant key literature, and develops a smart city interaction framework. The study is organised around a number of key themes within smart cities research: privacy and security of mobile devices and services;
A Lightweight Identity-Based Signature Scheme for Mitigation of Content Poisoning Attack in Named Data Networking with Internet of Things;Named Data Networking (NDN) is one of the future envisioned networking paradigm used to provide fast and efficient content dissemination with interest-based content retrieval, name-based routing and in-network content caching. On the one hand, this new breed of future Internet architecture is becoming a key technology for data dissemination in the IoT networks;
Cyberspace-oriented access control: A cyberspace characteristics-based model and its policies;With wide development of various information technologies, our daily activities are becoming deeply dependent on cyberspace. People often use handheld devices (e.g., mobile phones or laptops) to publish social messages, facilitate remote e-health diagnosis, or monitor a variety of surveillance. However, security insurance for these activities remains as a significant challenge. Representation of security purposes and their enforcement are two main issues in security of cyberspace. To address these challenging issues, we propose a cyberspace-oriented access control model (CoAC) for cyberspace whose typical usage scenario is as follows. Users leverage devices via network of networks to access sensitive objects with temporal and spatial limitations. We generalize subjects and objects in cyberspace and propose scene-based access control. To enforce security purposes, we argue that all operations on information in cyberspace are combinations of atomic operations. If every single atomic operation is secure, then the cyberspace is secure. Taking applications in the browser-server architecture as an example, we present seven atomic operations for these applications. A number of cases demonstrate that operations in these applications are combinations of introduced atomic operations. We also design a series of security policies for each atomic operation. Finally, we demonstrate both feasibility and flexibility of our CoAC model by examples.  2014 IEEE.;Cyberspace-oriented access control (CoAC)
Towards a Blockchain based Fall Prediction Model for Aged Care;Falls are one of the major health concerns for the elderly people. These falls often result in severe injuries which lead into huge medical expenses. Over the recent years, many ICT based fall detection and fall prevention solutions emerged to address the risk factors associated with falls. However, despite of these research studies, predicting the likelihood of falls still remains as a huge challenge in both medical and IT research domains. Data related to these risk factors being scattered among different healthcare providers can be attributed as a main reason for this challenge. This is further amplified by healthcare providers being reluctant to disseminate the data beyond their entities due to the security and privacy concerns. However, in recent years, blockchain has been proven as a promising technology to address the security and privacy challenges in healthcare data exchange as it provides a shared, immutable, and transparent audit trail for accessing data. Therefore, in this paper, we are going to propose a conceptual blockchain based fall prediction model leveraging smart contracts and FHIR (Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources) standard to identify the elderly people who are at a higher risk of falling.  2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Blockchain Technology
Global Model Interpretation Via Recursive Partitioning;In this work, we propose a simple but effective method to interpret black-box machine learning models globally. That is, we use a compact binary tree, the interpretation tree, to explicitly represent the most important decision rules that are implicitly contained in the black-box machine learning models. This tree is learned from the contribution matrix which consists of the contributions of input variables to predicted scores for each single prediction. To generate the interpretation tree, a unified process recursively partitions the input variable space by maximizing the difference in the average contribution of the split variable between the divided spaces. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in diagnosing machine learning models on multiple tasks. Also, it is useful for new knowledge discovery as such insights are not easily identifiable when only looking at single predictions. In general, our work makes it easier and more efficient for human beings to understand machine learning models.  2018 IEEE.;Interpretable machine learning
Data analytics in the internet of things: A survey;The plethora of sensors deployed in Internet of Things (IoT) environments generate unprecedented volumes of data, thereby creating a data deluge. Data collected from these sensors can be used to comprehend, examine and control intricate environments around us, facilitating greater intelligence, smarter decision-making, and better performance. The key challenge here is how to mine out proficient information from such immense data. Copious solutions have been put forth to obtain valuable inferences and insights, however, these solutions are still in their developing stages. Moreover, conventional procedures do not address the surging analytical demands of IoT systems. Motivated to resolve this concern, this work investigates the key enablers for performing desired data analytics in IoT applications. A comprehensive survey on the identified key enablers including their role in IoT data analytics, use-cases in which they have been applied and the performance results of the use-cases is presented. Furthermore, open research challenges and future research opportunities are also discussed. This article can be used as a basis to foster advanced research in the arena of IoT data analytics.  2019 SCPE.;Big data
Biometric-based attendance tracking system for education sectors: A literature survey on hardware requirements;The application of biometric recognition in personal authentication enables the growth of this technology to be employed in various domains. The implementation of biometric recognition systems can be based on physical or behavioral characteristics, such as the iris, voice, fingerprint, and face. Currently, the attendance tracking system based on biometric recognition for education sectors is still underutilized, thus providing a good opportunity to carry out interesting research in this area. As evidenced in a typical classroom, educators tend to take the attendance of their students by using conventional methods such as by calling out names or signing off an attendance sheet. Yet, these types of methods are proved to be time consuming and tedious, and sometimes, fraud occurs. As a result, significant progress had been made to mark attendance automatically by making use of biometric recognition. This progress enables a new and more advanced biometric-based attendance system being developed over the past ten years. The setting-up of biometric-based attendance systems requires both software and hardware components. Since the software and hardware sections are too broad to be discussed in one paper, this literature survey only provides an overview of the types of hardware used. Emphasis is then placed on the microcontroller platform, biometric sensor, communication channel, database storage, and other components in order to assist future researchers in designing the hardware part of biometric-based attendance systems.  2019 Seng Chun Hoo and Haidi Ibrahim.;
Differential privacy: its technological prescriptive using big data;Data is being produced in large amounts and in rapid pace which is diverse in quality, hence, the term big data used. Now, big data has started to influence modern day life in almost every sphere, be it business, education or healthcare. Data being a part and parcel of everyday life, privacy has become a topic requiring emphasis. Privacy can be defined as the capacity of a person or group to seclude themselves or information about themselves, and thereby express them selectively. Privacy in big data can be achieved through various means but here the focus is on differential privacy. Differential privacy is one such field with one of the strongest mathematical guarantee and with a large scope of future development. Along these lines, in this paper, the fundamental ideas of sensitivity and privacy budget in differential privacy, the noise mechanisms utilized as a part of differential privacy, the composition properties, the ways through which it can be achieved and the developments in this field till date has been presented. The research gap and future directions have also been mentioned as part of this paper.  2018, The Author(s).;Airavat
Releasing eHealth analytics into the wild: Lessons learnt from the SPHERE project;The SPHERE project is devoted to advancing eHealth in a smart-home context, and supports full-scale sensing and data analysis to enable a generic healthcare service. We describe, from a data-science perspective, our experience of taking the system out of the laboratory into more than thirty homes in Bristol, UK. We describe the infrastructure and processes that had to be developed along the way, describe how we train and deploy Machine Learning systems in this context, and give a realistic appraisal of the state of the deployed systems.  2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.;Ambient Assisted living
Log-likelihood clustering-enabled passive rf sensing for residential activity recognition;Physical activity recognition is an important research area in pervasive computing because of its importance for e-healthcare, security, and human-machine interaction. Among various approaches, passive radio frequency sensing is a well-tried radar principle that has potential to provide the unique solution for non-invasive activity detection and recognition. However, this technology is still far from mature. This paper presents a novel hidden Markov model-based log-likelihood matrix for characterizing the Doppler shifts to break the fixed sliding window limitation in traditional feature extraction approaches. We prove the effectiveness of the proposed feature extraction method by K-means K-medoids clustering algorithms with experimental Doppler data gathered from a passive radar system. The results show that the time adaptive log-likelihood matrix outperforms the traditional singular value decomposition, principal component analysis, and physical feature-based approaches, and reaches 80% in recognizing rate.  2001-2012 IEEE.;Doppler radar
Identifying methods for monitoring foodborne illness: Review of existing public health surveillance techniques;Background: Traditional methods of monitoring foodborne illness are associated with problems of untimeliness and underreporting. In recent years, alternative data sources such as social media data have been used to monitor the incidence of disease in the population (infodemiology and infoveillance). These data sources prove timelier than traditional general practitioner data, they can help to fill the gaps in the reporting process, and they often include additional metadata that is useful for supplementary research. Objective: The aim of the study was to identify and formally analyze research papers using consumer-generated data, such as social media data or restaurant reviews, to quantify a disease or public health ailment. Studies of this nature are scarce within the food safety domain, therefore identification and understanding of transferrable methods in other health-related fields are of particular interest. Methods: Structured scoping methods were used to identify and analyze primary research papers using consumer-generated data for disease or public health surveillance. The title, abstract, and keyword fields of 5 databases were searched using predetermined search terms. A total of 5239 papers matched the search criteria, of which 145 were taken to full-text review—62 papers were deemed relevant and were subjected to data characterization and thematic analysis. Results: The majority of studies (40/62, 65%) focused on the surveillance of influenza-like illness. Only 10 studies (16%) used consumer-generated data to monitor outbreaks of foodborne illness. Twitter data (58/62, 94%) and Yelp reviews (3/62, 5%) were the most commonly used data sources. Studies reporting high correlations against baseline statistics used advanced statistical and computational approaches to calculate the incidence of disease. These include classification and regression approaches, clustering approaches, and lexicon-based approaches. Although they are computationally intensive due to the requirement of training data, studies using classification approaches reported the best performance. Conclusions: By analyzing studies in digital epidemiology, computer science, and public health, this paper has identified and analyzed methods of disease monitoring that can be transferred to foodborne disease surveillance. These methods fall into 4 main categories: basic approach, classification and regression, clustering approaches, and lexicon-based approaches. Although studies using a basic approach to calculate disease incidence generally report good performance against baseline measures, they are sensitive to chatter generated by media reports. More computationally advanced approaches are required to filter spurious messages and protect predictive systems against false alarms. Research using consumer-generated data for monitoring influenza-like illness is expansive;
Research progress of sensor-cloud security [传感云安全研究进展];Through consulting lots of domestic and international literatures about sensor-cloud security, a series of security problems are found, such as reputation problem of service provider, the coupling problem of physical nodes, the leak of authority management, et al, which seriously hinders the further development of sensor-cloud. The secure problems occurring in sensor-cloud were analyzed, the current secure technologies were contrasted, similarities and differences of various types solutions were discussed and summarized. After that, several future challenges of sensor-cloud security were concluded. Finally, a fog-based structure was proposed to solve the security problems, which would bring new ideas to the sensor-cloud security research.  2018, Editorial Board of Journal on Communications. All right reserved.;Cloud computing
An enhanced unsupervised learning approach for sentiment analysis using extraction of tri-co-occurrence words phrases;This article reveals an unsupervised learning approach for determining the polarity of unstructured text in big data environment. The key inspiration for sentiment analysis research is essential for end users or e-commerce firms with local and global languages who expressed views about certain entities or subjects in social media or blogs or web resources. In proposed approach, applied an unsupervised learning approach with the help of idiom pattern extraction in determining favorable or unfavorable opinions or sentiments. Prior methods have achieved precision of sentiment classification accuracy on English language text up to 81.33% on a movie dataset with two co-occurrences of sentiment words phrases. This approach addressed the enhancement of sentiment classification accuracy in unstructured text in a big data environment with the help of extracting phrase patterns with tri-co-occurrences sentiment words. Proposed approach used two datasets such as cornel movie review and university selection datasets that are publicly available. Lastly, a review document is classified after comprehensive computation of semantic orientation of the phrases into positive or negative.  2018, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.;Phrase pattern extraction with tri-co-occurrence
Biomedical engineering in gastrointestinal surgery;"Biomedical Engineering in Gastrointestinal Surgery is a combination of engineering and surgical experience on the role of engineering in gastrointestinal surgery. There is currently no other book that combines engineering and clinical issues in this field, while engineering is becoming more and more important in surgery. This book is written to a high technical level, but also contains clear explanations of clinical conditions and clinical needs for engineers and students. Chapters covering anatomy and physiology are comprehensive and easy to understand for non-surgeons, while technologies are put into the context of surgical disease and anatomy for engineers. The authors are the two most senior members of the Institute for Minimally Invasive Interdisciplinary Therapeutic Interventions (MITI), which is pioneering this kind of collaboration between engineers and clinicians in minimally invasive surgery. MITI is an interdisciplinary platform for collaborative work of surgeons, gastroenterologists, biomedical engineers and industrial companies with mechanical and electronic workshops, dry laboratories and comprehensive facilities for animal studies as well as a fully integrated clinical ""OR of the future"".  2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.";
Intelligent data-intensive IoT: A survey;The IoT paradigm proposes to connect entities intelligently with massive heterogeneous nature, which forms an ocean of devices and data whose complexity and volume are incremental with time. Different from the general big data or IoT, the data-intensive feature of IoT introduces several specific challenges, such as circumstance dynamicity and uncertainties. Hence, intelligence techniques are needed in solving the problems brought by the data intensity. Until recent, there are many different views to handle IoT data and different intelligence enablers for IoT, with different contributions and different targets. However, there are still some issues have not been considered. This paper will provide a fresh survey study on the data-intensive IoT issue. Besides that, we conclude some shadow issues that have not been emphasized, which are interesting for the future. We propose also an extended big data model for intelligent data-intensive IoT to tackle the challenges.  2016 IEEE.;Context
Refining the concepts of self-quantification needed for health self-management a thematic literature review;Background: Questions like ‘How is your health? How are you feeling? How have you been?’ now can be answered in a different way due to innovative health self-quantification apps and devices. These apps and devices generate data that enable individuals to be informed and more responsible about their own health. Objectives: The aim of this paper is to review studies on health SQ, firstly, exploring the concepts that are associated with the users’ interaction with and around data for managing health;
A unified approach to data modeling and management in big data era;The emergence of big data paradigm and developments in other areas, such as cyber-infrastructures, smart cities, e-health, social media, Web 3.0, etc., has led to the production of huge volumes of data. Moreover, these data are often unstructured or semi-structured, with a high level of heterogeneity. Nowadays, information represents an essential factor in the process for supporting decisionmaking, and that is the reason that heterogeneous data must be integrated and analyzed to provide a unique view of information for many types of application. This chapter addresses the problem of modeling and integration of heterogeneous data that comes from multiple heterogeneous sources in the context of cyberinfrastructure systems and big data platforms. Furthermore, this chapter analyzes different heterogeneous data models in relation to heterogeneous sources such as the following: sensors, mobile users, web, and public open data sources (e.g., regulatory institutions). A CyberWater case study is also presented for the purposes of modeling, integration, and operation of these data in order to provide a unified approach and a unique view. The case study aims to offer support for different processes inside the CyberWater platform such as monitoring, analysis, and control of natural water resources, with the scope to preserve the water quality.  Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2016. All rights reserved.;Big data
Artificial neural learning based on big data process for eHealth applications;The complexity of the clinical context requires systems with the capability to make decisions based on reduced sets of data. Moreover, the adoption of mobile and ubiquitous devices could provide personal health-related information. In line with this, eHealth application faces several challenges so as to provide accurate and reliable data to both healthcare professionals and patients. This chapter focuses on computational learning on the healthcare systems presenting different classification processes to obtain knowledge from data. Finally, a case study based on a radial basis function neural network aiming the estimation of ECG waveform is explained. The presented model revealed its adaptability and suitability to support clinical decision making. However, complementary studies should be addressed to enable the model to predict the upper and lower points related to upward and downward deflections.  2015 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
FDT 2.0: Improving scalability of the fuzzy decision tree induction tool - Integrating database storage;Effective machine-learning handles large datasets efficiently. One key feature of handling large data is the use of databases such as MySQL. The freeware fuzzy decision tree induction tool, FDT, is a scalable supervised-classification software tool implementing fuzzy decision trees. It is based on an optimized fuzzy ID3 (FID3) algorithm. FDT 2.0 improves upon FDT 1.0 by bridging the gap between data science and data engineering: it combines a robust decisioning tool with data retention for future decisions, so that the tool does not need to be recalibrated from scratch every time a new decision is required. In this paper we briefly review the analytical capabilities of the freeware FDT tool and its major features and functionalities;
Ensemble-based Feature Selection and Classification Model for DNS Typo-squatting Detection;Domain Name System (DNS) plays in important role in the current IP-based Internet architecture. This is because it performs the domain name to IP resolution. However, the DNS protocol has several security vulnerabilities due to the lack of data integrity and origin authentication within it. This paper focuses on one particular security vulnerability, namely typo-squatting. Typo-squatting refers to the registration of a domain name that is extremely similar to that of an existing popular brand with the goal of redirecting users to malicious/suspicious websites. The danger of typo-squatting is that it can lead to information threat, corporate secret leakage, and can facilitate fraud. This paper builds on our previous work in [1], which only proposed majority-voting based classifier, by proposing an ensemble-based feature selection and bagging classification model to detect D NS typo-squatting attack. Experimental results show that the proposed framework achieves high accuracy and precision in identifying the malicious/suspicious typo-squatting domains (a loss of at most 1.5% in accuracy and 5% in precision when compared to the model that used the complete feature set) while having a lower computational complexity due to the smaller feature set (a reduction of more than 50 % in feature set size).  2020 IEEE.;Bagging Ensemble Classification Model
Blockchain-based decentralized storage networks: A survey;Blockchain is a new approach to create a distributed network which was first introduced in 2008. By the help of this disruptive technology a peer-to-peer network can be formed where nodes have to reach a consensus and form a chain from accepted blocks, while no central party or trusted controller is required. Among all the existing uses of this technology, decentralized storage systems are one of its prominent applications. Decentralized storage networks, are consisted of a group of people willing to rent out their unused hardware storage space. By implementing end-to-end encryption clients can securely transmit their files through a fully decentralized network and eliminate the risk of data failures that arise from centralized controls. In this network, storage providers are required to prove that they store unaltered files during the time. Also a smart contract between two parties is set out in which rental duration and cost that the customer needs to pay for using that storage space is clarified. This paper presents a comprehensive survey on the blockchain-based storage systems and how they work and then compares them with cloud-based storage networks. Also different techniques of consensus protocols in each group are explored. Next, we have an overview on the advantages and also weak points of blockchain-based storage systems. Finally, we discuss about future research directions.  2020 Elsevier Ltd;Blockchain
A taxonomy of DDoS attack mitigation approaches featured by SDN technologies in IoT scenarios;The Internet of Things (IoT) has attracted much attention from the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) community in recent years. One of the main reasons for this is the availability of techniques provided by this paradigm, such as environmental monitoring employing user data and everyday objects. The facilities provided by the IoT infrastructure allow the development of a wide range of new business models and applications (e.g., smart homes, smart cities, or e-health). However, there are still concerns over the security measures which need to be addressed to ensure a suitable deployment. Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks are among the most severe virtual threats at present and occur prominently in this scenario, which can be mainly owed to their ease of execution. In light of this, several research studies have been conducted to find new strategies as well as improve existing techniques and solutions. The use of emerging technologies such as those based on the Software-Defined Networking (SDN) paradigm has proved to be a promising alternative as a means of mitigating DDoS attacks. However, the high granularity that characterizes the IoT scenarios and the wide range of techniques explored during the DDoS attacks make the task of finding and implementing new solutions quite challenging. This problem is exacerbated by the lack of benchmarks that can assist developers when designing new solutions for mitigating DDoS attacks for increasingly complex IoT scenarios. To fill this knowledge gap, in this study we carry out an in-depth investigation of the state-of-the-art and create a taxonomy that describes and characterizes existing solutions and highlights their main limitations. Our taxonomy provides a comprehensive view of the reasons for the deployment of the solutions, and the scenario in which they operate. The results of this study demonstrate the main benefits and drawbacks of each solution set when applied to specific scenarios by examining current trends and future perspectives, for example, the adoption of emerging technologies based on Cloud and Edge (or Fog) Computing.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Distributed Denial of Service Attacks (DDoS)
Indoor air quality monitoring systems for enhanced living environments: A review toward sustainable smart cities;Smart cities follow different strategies to face public health challenges associated with socio-economic objectives. Buildings play a crucial role in smart cities and are closely related to people's health. Moreover, they are equally essential to meet sustainable objectives. People spend most of their time indoors. Therefore, indoor air quality has a critical impact on health and well-being. With the increasing population of elders, ambient-assisted living systems are required to promote occupational health and well-being. Furthermore, living environments must incorporate monitoring systems to detect unfavorable indoor quality scenarios in useful time. This paper reviews the current state of the art on indoor air quality monitoring systems based on Internet of Things and wireless sensor networks in the last five years (2014-2019). This document focuses on the architecture, microcontrollers, connectivity, and sensors used by these systems. The main contribution is to synthesize the existing body of knowledge and identify common threads and gaps that open up new significant and challenging future research directions. The results show that 57% of the indoor air quality monitoring systems are based on Arduino, 53% of the systems use Internet of Things, and WSN architectures represent 33%. The CO2 and PM monitoring sensors are the most monitored parameters in the analyzed literature, corresponding to 67% and 29%, respectively.  2020 by the authors.;Ambient assisted living
A lightweight and cost effective edge intelligence architecture based on containerization technology;The integration of Cloud computing and Internet of Things led to rapid growth in the edge computing field. This would not be achievable without combining the data centers’ managing systems with much more restrained technologies. One significantly effective and lightweight solution to this issue is presented by the Docker technology. It is able to manage virtualization process and can therefore be used to distribute, deploy and manage cloud and edge applications assigned into the clusters. In our study, this technology was represented by the Raspberry Pi devices, which are convenient thanks to their low cost, robust applicability and lightweight nature. Our application scenario focuses on identification of the human activities. In this paper, we suggest and evaluate an architecture on the basis of the distributed edge/cloud integration paradigm. We explain all of its advantages which lie in the combination of affordability and several other benefits provided by the fact that data processing is conducted by the edge devices instead of the central server. To recognize and identify human activity, the Regularized Extreme Leaning Machine (RELM) was engaged in our architecture. Our study presents detailed information about our use case scenario and the experimental simulation we performed.  2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Containers, regularized extreme leaning machine
Multi-User Multi-Keyword Rank Search over Encrypted Data in Arbitrary Language;Multi-keyword rank searchable encryption (MRSE) returns the top-k results in response to a data user's request of multi-keyword search over encrypted data, and hence provides an efficient way for preserving data privacy in cloud storage systems while without loss of data usability. Many existing MRSE systems are constructed based on an algorithm which we term as k-nearest neighbor for searchable encryption (KNN-SE). Unfortunately, KNN-SE has a number of shortcomings, which limit its practical applications. In this paper, we propose a new MRSE system which overcomes almost all the defects of the KNN-SE based MRSE systems. Specifically, our new system does not require a predefined keyword set and supports keywords in arbitrary languages, is a multi-user system which supports flexible search authorization and time-controlled revocation, and it achieves better data privacy protection since even the cloud server is not able to tell which documents are the top-k results returned to a data user. We also conduct extensive experiments to demonstrate the efficiency of the new system.  2004-2012 IEEE.;multiple keyword
Internet of things and enhanced living environments: Measuring and mapping air quality using cyber-physical systems and mobile computing technologies;This paper presents a real-time air quality monitoring system based on Internet of Things. Air quality is particularly relevant for enhanced living environments and well-being. The Environmental Protection Agency and the World Health Organization have acknowledged the material impact of air quality on public health and defined standards and policies to regulate and improve air quality. However, there is a significant need for cost-effective methods to monitor and control air quality which provide modularity, scalability, portability, easy installation and configuration features, and mobile computing technologies integration. The proposed method allows the measuring and mapping of air quality levels considering the spatial-temporal information. This system incorporates a cyber-physical system for data collection and mobile computing software for data consulting. Moreover, this method provides a cost-effective and efficient solution for air quality supervision and can be installed in vehicles to monitor air quality while travelling. The results obtained confirm the implementation of the system and present a relevant contribution to enhanced living environments in smart cities. This supervision solution provides real-time identification of unhealthy behaviours and supports the planning of possible interventions to increase air quality.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. T.;Air quality
A Survey on Blockchain-Based Self-Sovereign Patient Identity in Healthcare;Convergence of physical and digital identity and integration of various individual records, such as patient data, into a united repository remains a serious challenge. On one hand, collecting relevant data can help clinicians, specialists and healthcare service providers to facilitate care for patients. On the other hand, Self-Sovereign identity and the right to control personal data comes into question, because patients do not handle their data explicitly. Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) is a novel method which would allow to securely record time-stamped data and enable patient-driven health and identity records. In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art in Blockchain (BC)-based self-sovereignty and patient data records in healthcare. Our motivation is to investigate the potential of BC technology for use in the patient data and identity management. As a distributed decentralized technology, BC can be very beneficial, giving patients control over their own data and self-sovereign identity. To the extent of our knowledge, there is no literature covering the same concerns. More specifically, the focus is on solutions that aim the realization of holistic BC-based Electronic Health Records (EHR) and Patient Health Records (PHR). EHR and PHR are used to record patient data, such as the doctor's notes upon a visit and radiology images. Hence, they include critical information regarding patient's privacy and identity. Therefore, development of pure decentralized Healthcare Information Systems (HIS) is a great challenge in terms of architectural and technical structure of the systems. Designing robust and reliable EHR and PHR, which represent the foundation of many other healthcare services, relies on carefully finding the balance in a trade-off between many factors, such as level of decentralization, privacy, scalability and data throughput. In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art and provide an analysis on the design trade-offs.  2013 IEEE.;Blockchain
Accountable privacy preserving attribute based framework for authenticated encrypted access in clouds;In this paper, we propose an accountable privacy preserving attribute-based framework, called Ins-PAbAC, that combines attribute based encryption and attribute based signature techniques for securely sharing outsourced data contents via public cloud servers. The proposed framework presents several advantages. First, it provides an encrypted access control feature, enforced at the data owner's side, while providing the desired expressiveness of access control policies. Second, Ins-PAbAC preserves users’ privacy, relying on an anonymous authentication mechanism, derived from a privacy preserving attribute based signature scheme that hides the users’ identifying information. Furthermore, our proposal introduces an accountable attribute based signature that enables an inspection authority to reveal the identity of the anonymously-authenticated user if needed. Third, Ins-PAbAC is provably secure, as it is resistant to both curious cloud providers and malicious users adversaries. Finally, experimental results, built upon OpenStack Swift testbed, point out the applicability of the proposed scheme in real world scenarios.  2019 Elsevier Inc.;Accountability
Review of big data and processing frameworks for disaster response applications;Natural hazards result in devastating losses in human life, environmental assets and personal, and regional and national economies. The availability of different big data such as satellite imageries, Global Positioning System (GPS) traces, mobile Call Detail Records (CDRs), social media posts, etc., in conjunction with advances in data analytic techniques (e.g., data mining and big data processing, machine learning and deep learning) can facilitate the extraction of geospatial information that is critical for rapid and effective disaster response. However, disaster response systems development usually requires the integration of data from different sources (streaming data sources and data sources at rest) with different characteristics and types, which consequently have different processing needs. Deciding which processing framework to use for a specific big data to perform a given task is usually a challenge for researchers from the disaster management field. Therefore, this paper contributes in four aspects. Firstly, potential big data sources are described and characterized. Secondly, the big data processing frameworks are characterized and grouped based on the sources of data they handle. Then, a short description of each big data processing framework is provided and a comparison of processing frameworks in each group is carried out considering the main aspects such as computing cluster architecture, data flow, data processing model, fault-tolerance, scalability, latency, back-pressure mechanism, programming languages, and support for machine learning libraries, which are related to specific processing needs. Finally, a link between big data and processing frameworks is established, based on the processing provisioning for essential tasks in the response phase of disaster management.  2019 by the authors.;Big data
The extent and coverage of current knowledge of connected health: Systematic mapping study;Background: This study examines the development of the connected health (CH) research landscape with a view to providing an overview of the existing CH research. The research field of CH has experienced rapid growth coinciding with increasing pressure on health care systems to become more proactive and patient centered. Objective: This study aimed to assess the extent and coverage of the current body of knowledge in CH. In doing so, we sought to identify specific topics that have drawn the attention of CH researchers and to identify research gaps, in particular those offering opportunities for further interdisciplinary research. Methods: A systematic mapping study that combined scientific contributions from research in the disciplines of medicine, business, computer science, and engineering was used. Overall, seven classification criteria were used to analyze the papers, including publication source, publication year, research type, empirical type, contribution type, research topic, and the medical condition studied. Results: The search resulted in 208 papers that were analyzed by a multidisciplinary group of researchers. The results indicated a slow start for CH research but showed a more recent steady upswing since 2013. The majority of papers proposed health care solutions (77/208, 37.0%) or evaluated CH approaches (49/208, 23.5%). Case studies (59/208, 28.3%) and experiments (55/208, 26.4%) were the most popular forms of scientific validation used. Diabetes, cancer, multiple sclerosis, and heart conditions were among the most prevalent medical conditions studied. Conclusions: We conclude that CH research has become an established field of research that has grown over the last five years. The results of this study indicate a focus on technology-driven research with a strong contribution from medicine, whereas the business aspects of CH have received less research attention.  2019 Maria Karampela, Minna Isomursu, Talya Porat, Christos Maramis, Nicola Mountford, Guido Giunti, Ioanna Chouvarda, Fedor Lehocki.;Connected health
A correctable public blockchain;A key property of current blockchain solutions is the immutability of data stored in the blockchain. While this is a desired feature e.g. for crypto currencies, it can be a show stopper for other use cases that still require ex-post correction or removal of stored data. Existing proposals for redactable blockchains address this issue, but support the correction of specific types of stored data only. To overcome these limitations, we propose and introduce a correctable blockchain architecture that supports correction of arbitrary data. The proposed solution uses a consensus-enforced voting mechanism for decentralized decision making on requested data corrections. Information on applied corrections is stored in a second chain, which ensures that the corrected chain can still be validated successfully. We have verified the security of the proposed correctable blockchain architecture by means of a detailed security analysis. Furthermore, we have evaluated the proposed solution by means of a first reference implementation, which demonstrates the solution's feasibility. First experiments conducted with this reference implementation indicate that the added data-correction functionality has only negligible impacts on the overall performance.  2019 IEEE.;Consensus enforced voting
Tackling data inefficiency: Compressing the bitcoin blockchain;In blockchain-based solutions, the amount of data stored in the blockchain increases steadily. Considerable amounts of data accordingly need to be download and stored at decentralized nodes to carry out meaningful validations. For the Bitcoin blockchain, approximately 197 GB must currently be downloaded and processed by any node aiming to fully verify the correctness of stored transactions. This represents an emerging problem with respect to resource-constrained thin clients that lack the required download or storage capacities, but with which meaningful validations still need to be carried out. This problem will gain even more relevance in the future, as blockchain technology is applied to new domains such as the Internet of Things (IoT) that necessitate the use of thin clients. We address this emerging problem by proposing a novel compressible blockchain architecture. In our proposal, we use a snapshot-based approach, to create snapshots of the blockchain at regular intervals and store them in blocks. These blocks are chained, forming a second blockchain that is linked to the primary chain. In this way, the amount of data that needs to be downloaded and stored by decentralized nodes is reduced considerably, while the full validation of the entire blockchain still remains feasible. In this paper, we describe the proposed compressible blockchain architecture in detail. We conducted evaluations that demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed solution and show its advantages over related approaches introduced in the literature. Overall, our design can be used to reduce the size of the blockchain by up to 93%, facilitating secure blockchain-based applications even on resource-constrained thin clients such as IoT devices.  2019 IEEE.;Blockchain size
Occam's razor for big data? On detecting quality in large unstructured datasets;Detecting quality in large unstructured datasets requires capacities far beyond the limits of human perception and communicability and, as a result, there is an emerging trend towards increasingly complex analytic solutions in data science to cope with this problem. This new trend towards analytic complexity represents a severe challenge for the principle of parsimony (Occam's razor) in science. This review article combines insight from various domains such as physics, computational science, data engineering, and cognitive science to review the specific properties of big data. Problems for detecting data quality without losing the principle of parsimony are then highlighted on the basis of specific examples. Computational building block approaches for data clustering can help to deal with large unstructured datasets in minimized computation time, and meaning can be extracted rapidly from large sets of unstructured image or video data parsimoniously through relatively simple unsupervised machine learning algorithms. Why we still massively lack in expertise for exploiting big data wisely to extract relevant information for specific tasks, recognize patterns and generate new information, or simply store and further process large amounts of sensor data is then reviewed, and examples illustrating why we need subjective views and pragmatic methods to analyze big data contents are brought forward. The review concludes on how cultural differences between East and West are likely to affect the course of big data analytics, and the development of increasingly autonomous artificial intelligence (AI) aimed at coping with the big data deluge in the near future.  2019 by the authors.;Applied data science
DASS-CARE: A decentralized,  accessible,  scalable,  and secure healthcare framework using blockchain;The healthcare industry is a complex system of interconnected entities. Each of these entities has disjoint information systems to manage patient data and records. The current IT solutions in healthcare systems have several challenges such as sharing and accessing medical records across several stakeholders while still maintaining security and privacy of these records. This global problem on how to create, maintain, and share sensitive medical records and clinical data among various stakeholders without sacrificing data privacy and integrity is still unresolved. In fact, existing healthcare records are decentralized, disjointed, non-uniform, and fragmented in nature. In this paper, we present a Blockchain-based framework, called DASS-CARE, that supports decentralized, accessible, scalable, and secure access to healthcare services including medical records. Such framework will greatly facilitate the process of real time access and updates without compromising security, integrity and confidentiality of patient data. Our objective is multifold. First, improve the quality of healthcare and lower the cost of delivery. Second, enhance medical records management including electronic health records unification. Finally, provide users with the ability to view their medical records regardless of their history, a task that is difficult to accomplish under the current fragmented systems.  2019 IEEE.;Blockchain
Deep learning and big data in healthcare: A double review for critical beginners;In the last few years, there has been a growing expectation created about the analysis of large amounts of data often available in organizations, which has been both scrutinized by the academic world and successfully exploited by industry. Nowadays, two of the most common terms heard in scientific circles are Big Data and Deep Learning. In this double review, we aim to shed some light on the current state of these different, yet somehow related branches of Data Science, in order to understand the current state and future evolution within the healthcare area. We start by giving a simple description of the technical elements of Big Data technologies, as well as an overview of the elements of Deep Learning techniques, according to their usual description in scientific literature. Then, we pay attention to the application fields that can be said to have delivered relevant real-world success stories, with emphasis on examples from large technology companies and financial institutions, among others. The academic effort that has been put into bringing these technologies to the healthcare sector are then summarized and analyzed from a twofold view as follows: first, the landscape of application examples is globally scrutinized according to the varying nature of medical data, including the data forms in electronic health recordings, medical time signals, and medical images;
Positioning methods and the use of location and activity data in forests;In this paper, we provide an overview of positioning systems for moving resources in forest and fire management and review the related literature. Emphasis is placed on the accuracy and range of different localization and location-sharing methods, particularly in forested environments and in the absence of conventional cellular or internet connectivity. We then conduct a second review of literature and concepts related to several emerging, broad themes in data science, including the terms location-based services (LBS), geofences, wearable technology, activity recognition, mesh networking, the Internet of Things (IoT), and big data. Our objective in this second review is to inform how these broader concepts, with implications for networking and analytics, may help to advance natural resource management and science in the future. Based on methods, themes, and concepts that arose in our systematic reviews, we then augmented the paper with additional literature from wildlife and fisheries management, as well as concepts from video object detection, relative positioning, and inventory-tracking that are also used as forms of localization. Based on our reviews of positioning technologies and emerging data science themes, we present a hierarchical model for collecting and sharing data in forest and fire management, and more broadly in the field of natural resources. The model reflects tradeoffs in range and bandwidth when recording, processing, and communicating large quantities of data in time and space to support resource management, science, and public safety in remote areas. In the hierarchical approach, wearable devices and other sensors typically transmit data at short distances using Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), or ANT wireless, and smartphones and tablets serve as intermediate data collection and processing hubs for information that can be subsequently transmitted using radio networking systems or satellite communication. Data with greater spatial and temporal complexity is typically processed incrementally at lower tiers, then fused and summarized at higher levels of incident command or resource management. Lastly, we outline several priority areas for future research to advance big data analytics in natural resources.  2019 by the authors.;Activity recognition; Radio frequency identification; Radio telemetry; Ultra-wideband; Wearable technology; Wildland fire;" Wildlife""";
A Lightweight Privacy-Preserving Solution for IoT: The Case of E-Health;E-health, as an IoT application, promises to improve the human daily life. It collects periodically biomedical data through intelligent sensors and transmits it for remote medical diagnostics. Due to the importance of exchanged medical data, privacy preserving is a huge issue. To this aim, several solutions were proposed. However, either they cannot provide a high level of privacy, or they incur an important overhead. Motivated by this observation, we introduce a privacy preserving E-health system including a novel cryptographic scheme called PKE-IBE. The proposed cryptographic scheme is based on Identity-Based Cryptography (IBC). It tackles the key escrow issue and ensures blind partial private key generation. A chosen ciphertext security variant is also introduced. Our detailed security and performance analysis reveals that our proposal not only overcomes various known attacks but also is efficient in comparison to existing approaches.  2018 IEEE.;E Health
A Comprehensive Survey on Secure Outsourced Computation and Its Applications;With the ever-increasing requirement of storage and computation resources, it is unrealistic for local devices (with limited sources) to implement large-scale data processing. Therefore, individuals or corporations incline to outsource their computation requirements to the cloud. However, data outsourcing brings security and privacy concerns to users when the cloud servers are not fully trusted. Recently, extensive research works are conducted, aiming at secure outsourcing schemes for diverse computational tasks via different technologies. In this survey, we provide a technical review and comparison of existing outsourcing schemes using diverse secure computation methods. Specifically, we begin the survey by describing security threats and requirements of secure outsourcing computation. Meanwhile, we introduce four secure techniques (i.e., secure multi-party computation, pseudorandom functions, software guard extensions, and perturbation approaches) and their related works. Then, we focus on the theories and evolution of homomorphic encryption, as well as the applications of the basic operations and application-specific tasks. Finally, we discuss the security and performance of existing works and give future directions in this field.  2013 IEEE.;data processing
Fog Computing for 5G-Enabled Tactile Internet: Research, Challenges,  and Future Research Directions;From the last few years, we have witnessed an exponential increase in the usage of delay-sensitive applications by the end-users because of the paradigm shift and revolution in different technologies starting from 1G to 5G most of which are having focus on QoS and QoE to the end-users. The existing standards on 5G mainly concentrate on the following issues: 10 Gigabyte data rate, 1-millisecond latency, high bandwidth per unit area, 99.999% availability, 100% coverage and 90% reduction in network energy usage. Hence, 5G has the capability to support various types of communications from the low power Local Area Network (LAN) to Wide Area Networks (WAN) with low-latency and high-speed. It allows human-to-human (H2H), human-to-machine (H2M) interactions for exchanging of data and signals. So, for better data transmission between different entities (for example, smart objects located across different geographic locations), efficient communication between billions of smart devices is required and the associated technology is called as “Internet of Things”. However, issues such as- latency-tolerant, low-data rate, high complexity, privacy and security in existing solutions may deteriorate the performance of any implemented solution in this environment. To mitigate the above-mentioned problems, the literature suggests that fog computing can be one of the options as it provides ultra-low-latency for Tactile-based applications. Tactile Internet is an emerging technology used for H2M interactions to support high-reliability, ultra-responsive, and high fidelity. Keeping focus on all the aforementioned challenges and constraints, in this paper, we provide an analysis on the usage of the strong backbone infrastructure of fog computing for 5G-enabled Tactile Internet with a maximum bandwidth of 1 Gigabyte having the minimum latency of 1-millisecond. It supports low-latency and high-reliability in Tactile-based applications. Keeping focus on the issues such as- resource management, communication infrastructure, fog orchestration, fog networking, healthcare, security and privacy of fog system in Tactile-based applications, we have explored and compared the existing state-of-the-art proposals using various parameters such as- energy-efficient, QoS, scalability, mobility, and interoperability. In addition, a number of open research challenges of fog computing for 5G-enabled Tactile Internet are also explored to provide deep insights to the readers.  2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Fifth generation
The role of deep learning in improving healthcare;Healthcare is transforming through adoption of information technologies (IT) and digitalization. Machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) are two of the IT technologies that are leading this transformation. In this chapter we focus on Deep Learning (DL), a subfield of ML that relies on deep artificial neural networks to deliver breakthroughs in long-standing AI problems. DL is about working with high-dimensional data (e.g., images, speech recording, natural language) and learning efficient representations that allow for building successful models. We present a structured overview of DL methods applied to healthcare problems based on their suitability of the different technologies to the available modalities of healthcare data. This data-centric perspective reflects the data-driven nature of DL methods and allows side-by-side comparison with different domains in healthcare. Challenges, in broad adoption of DL, are commonly related to some of its main drawbacks, particularly lack of interpretability and transparency. We discuss the drawbacks and limitations of DL technology that specifically come to light in the domain of healthcare. We also address the need for a considerable amount of data and annotations to successfully build these models that can be a particularly expensive and time-consuming effort. Overall, the chapter offers insights into existing applications of DL to healthcare on their suitability for specific types of data and their limitations.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.;
Merging heterogeneous clinical data to enable knowledge discovery;The vision of precision medicine relies on the integration of large-scale clinical, molecular and environmental datasets. Data integration may be thought of along two axes: data fusion across institutions, and data fusion across modalities. Cross-institutional data sharing that maintains semantic integrity hinges on the adoption of data standards and a push toward ontology-driven integration. The goal should be the creation of query-able data repositories spanning primary and tertiary care providers, disease registries, research organizations etc. to produce rich longitudinal datasets. Cross-modality sharing involves the integration of multiple data streams, from structured EHR data (diagnosis codes, laboratory tests) to genomics, imaging, monitors and patient-generated data including wearable devices. This integration presents unique technical, semantic, and ethical challenges;
Automated User Authentication in Wireless Public Key Infrastructure for Mobile Devices Using Aadhar Card;Identification and authentication play a significant role in security controls. The manual process of user identification and authentication is time-consuming and tedious. The proposed research work aims to overcome this drawback and achieve user identification and authentication through an automated method using the Aadhar card. Aadhar project is developed by the Unique Identification Authority of India by merging biometrics and digitization. The details are stored in the form of a quick response code along with a 12-digit Aadhar card number. A model is built to capture the information from the Aadhar card. The mobile phones are used to obtain the data from the Aadhar card. The user validation is through two-step process using One Time Password and email address. The wireless public key infrastructure issues a digital certificate to the valid user. The proposed authentication and symmetric key exchange algorithm are formally verified and analyzed using automated validation of Internet security protocols and applications. The result of simulation proves that the proposed scheme is secure and safe. The experimental results show that time consumption for user authentication is acceptable. The acceptance of the proposed automated user identification and authentication model is authorized using a modified technology acceptance model. The result proves that there exists a strong relationship between the perceived usefulness of items and the Attribute Of Use (AOU). It also exhibits that the association between the AOU and user satisfaction is influential. The model demonstrates that the association between the Perceived Ease Of Use and attribute towards use is weak. The influence of exogenous variables over endogenous variables exhibits that the proposed model outperforms the traditional manual system and the target users are inclined towards it. The proposed model also finds its application in services which requires user authentication.  2013 IEEE.;Aadhar card
MoDeSuS: A machine learning tool for selection of molecular descriptors in qsar studies applied to molecular informatics;The selection of the most relevant molecular descriptors to describe a target variable in the context of QSAR (Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship) modelling is a challenging combinatorial optimization problem. In this paper, a novel software tool for addressing this task in the context of regression and classification modelling is presented. The methodology that implements the tool is organized into two phases. The first phase uses a multiobjective evolutionary technique to perform the selection of subsets of descriptors. The second phase performs an external validation of the chosen descriptors subsets in order to improve reliability. The tool functionalities have been illustrated through a case study for the estimation of the ready biodegradation property as an example of classification QSAR modelling. The results obtained show the usefulness and potential of this novel software tool that aims to reduce the time and costs of development in the drug discovery process. Copyright  2019 María Jimena Martínez et al. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License;
A oneM2M-based query engine for internet of things (IoT) data streams;The new standard oneM2M (one machine-to-machine) aims to standardize the architecture and protocols of Internet of Things (IoT) middleware for better interoperability. Although the standard seems promising, it lacks several features for efficiently searching and retrieving IoT data which satisfy users’ intentions. In this paper, we design and develop a oneM2M-based query engine, called OMQ, that provides a real-time processing over IoT data streams. For this purpose, we define a query language which enables users to retrieve IoT data from data sources using JavaScript Object Notation (JSON). We also propose efficient query processing algorithms which utilizes the oneM2M architecture consisting of two nodes: (1) the IoT node and (2) the infrastructure node. IoT nodes of OMQ are mainly sensor devices execute user queries the aggregate, transform and filter operators, whereas the infrastructure node handles the join operator of user queries. Since the query processing algorithms are implemented as the hybrid infrastructure-edge processing, user queries can be executed efficiently in each IoT node rather than only in the infrastructure node. Thus, our OMQ system reduces the query processing time and the network bandwidth. We conducted a comprehensive evaluation of OMQ using a real and a synthetic data set. Experimental results demonstrate the feasibility and efficiency of OMQ system for executing queries and transferring data from each IoT node.  2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Edge analytics
Visual Data Mining With Self-organizing Maps for “Self-monitoring” Data Analysis;Data collected in psychological studies are mainly characterized by containing a large number of variables (multidimensional data sets). Analyzing multidimensional data can be a difficult task, especially if only classical approaches are used (hypothesis tests, analyses of variance, linear models, etc.). Regarding multidimensional models, visual techniques play an important role because they can show the relationships among variables in a data set. Parallel coordinates and Chernoff faces are good examples of this. This article presents self-organizing maps (SOM), a multivariate visual data mining technique used to provide global visualizations of all the data. This technique is presented as a tutorial with the aim of showing its capabilities, how it works, and how to interpret its results. Specifically, SOM analysis has been applied to analyze the data collected in a study on the efficacy of a cognitive and behavioral treatment (CBT) for childhood obesity. The objective of the CBT was to modify the eating habits and level of physical activity in a sample of children with overweight and obesity. Children were randomized into two treatment conditions: CBT traditional procedure (face-to-face sessions) and CBT supported by a web platform. In order to analyze their progress in the acquisition of healthier habits, self-register techniques were used to record dietary behavior and physical activity. In the traditional CBT condition, children completed the self-register using a paper-and-pencil procedure, while in the web platform condition, participants completed the self-register using an electronic personal digital assistant. Results showed the potential of SOM for analyzing the large amount of data necessary to study the acquisition of new habits in a childhood obesity treatment. Currently, the high prevalence of childhood obesity points to the need to develop strategies to manage a large number of data in order to design procedures adapted to personal characteristics and increase treatment efficacy.  The Author(s) 2016.;artificial neural networks
Engaging telehealth to drive value-based urology;Purpose of review Telehealth, or the remote delivery of healthcare services using telecommunications technology, has the potential to revolutionize the delivery of healthcare and contribute to ongoing efforts to provide high-value care. Recent findings We discuss several categories of telehealth that have been applied to healthcare. Several of these approaches, in particular video visits and teleconsultations, have promising early data demonstrating the significant benefits of telehealth technology with respect to the quality of care, access, cost savings, and patient experience. Nonetheless, considerable knowledge gaps still exist regarding how and for which patients and diseases telehealth modalities should be applied. Finally, we discuss the barriers to widespread adoption at the institutional, state, and federal levels. Summary Maximizing the value of healthcare is an important goal for hospitals, physicians, and policymakers. Telehealth leverages advances in technology and the widespread availability of telecommunications devices to make healthcare communication more available, more convenient, and more efficient for patients and providers. With appropriate policies and incentives, telehealth initiatives can improve the value of urologic care and smooth the transition to a value-based healthcare system.  2018 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.;remote monitoring
Machine learning for the developing world;Researchers from across the social and computer sciences are increasingly using machine learning to study and address global development challenges. This article examines the burgeoning field of machine learning for the developing world (ML4D). First, we present a review of prominent literature. Next, we suggest best practices drawn from the literature for ensuring that ML4D projects are relevant to the advancement of development objectives. Finally, we discuss how developing world challenges can motivate the design of novel machine learning methodologies. This article provides insights into systematic differences between ML4D and more traditional machine learning applications. It also discusses how technical complications of ML4D can be treated as novel research questions, how ML4D can motivate new research directions, and where machine learning can be most useful.  2018 ACM.;Developing countries
A service oriented healthcare architecture (SOHA-CC) based on cloud computing;Healthcare systems are designed to facilitate the end users in order to maintain the good health and predicting the future trends for safety measures. Most of the systems running right now are assisting the users with the number of services like m-health, e-health. Although, many of the systems are operative, but still a lot of problems are to be addressed. The data related to healthcare industry is extremely sensitive, that could not be altered or edited by any source, and likely many problems of privacy and security are still maintained in the current systems. Though, many systems are still working on the security challenges but they are struggling to resolve the related issues. To secure patients data is the biggest deal to solve. We will try to overcome the problem related to security by proposing a framework, named as Service Oriented Architecture for Health care based on cloud computing (SOHA-CC). This framework contains four layers, specifically, Application layer, Cloud application and Service layer, Network computing layer and, finally Healthcare layer.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018.;Architecture
Prediction of Liver Diseases Based on Machine Learning Technique for Big Data;Liver diseases have produced a big data such as metabolomics analyses, electronic health records, and report including patient medical information, and disorders. However, these data must be analyzed and integrated if they are to produce models about physiological mechanisms of pathogenesis. We use machine learning based on classifier for big datasets in the fields of liver to Predict and therapeutic discovery. A dataset was developed with twenty three attributes that include the records of 7000 patients in which 5295 patients were male and rests were female. Support Vector Machine (SVM), Boosted C5.0, and Naive Bayes (NB), data mining techniques are used with the proposed model for the prediction of liver diseases. The performance of these classifier techniques are evaluated with accuracy, sensitivity, specificity.  2018, Springer International Publishing AG.;Big data
Emerging trend of big data analytics in bioinformatics: A literature review;Advancement of unparalleled data in bioinformatics over the years is a major concern for storage and management. Such massive data must be handled efficiently to disseminate knowledge. Computational advancements in information technology present feasible analytical solutions to process such data. In this context, the paper is an attempt to highlight the influence of big data in bioinformatics. Some of the concepts emphasised are definition of big data;
Using software architecture principles and lightweight formalisation to build adaptive middleware;The development of an adaptive middleware is still a challenge due to the complexity of dealing with traditional adaptation issues, such as Why to adapt? When to adapt? Where do we have to implement change? What kind of change is needed? How is the adaptation performed? This paper presents a solution that integrates software architecture concepts, lightweight formalisation and process mining to face the mentioned challenges. The solution reduces the effort to implement the middleware and reinforces safety properties at development time and when the middleware is already in execution. To evaluate the proposed solution, we carried out an initial experimental evaluation to measure the time to decide for an adaptation using process mining.  2017 Association for Computing Machinery.;Adaptive Middleware
Cloud-based e-health systems: Security and privacy challenges and solutions;For a long time, the sensitivity and criticality of data storage, processing, and transmission have hindered the wide utilization of IT and networks in the health care systems. Recently, the high availability, reachability, reliability, efficiency, usability and automation provided by the different cloud computing models paved the way to integrate the e-health systems with these cloud services to improve their efficiencies. However, security and privacy still constitute the main concern in the current models of cloud computing for cloud-based e-health care systems. The convergence and integration of different services with different capabilities and ownerships means high risks on security and privacy of the data, which are not negotiable in e-health care systems. There have been many proposals to solve some of these concerns specifically or among other protocols. In this paper we define d ifferent s cenarios f or t he i ntegration of the e-health systems with the cloud computing systems. We also define the security and privacy requirements for these scenarios as well as the guidelines of the proposed solutions for the presented security and privacy problems.  2017 IEEE.;Health systems
Leveraging NoSQL for scalable and dynamic data encryption in multi-tenant SaaS;In the context of multi-tenant SaaS applications, data confidentiality support is increasingly being offered from within the application layer instead of the database layer or the storage layer to accommodate continuously changing requirements of multiple tenants. Application-level data management middleware platforms are becoming increasingly compelling for dealing with the complexity of a multi-cloud or a federated cloud storage architecture as well as multi-tenant SaaS applications.However, these platforms typically support traditional data mapping strategies that are created under the assumption of a fixed and rigorous database schema. Thus, mapping data objects while supporting varying data confidentiality requirements, therefore, leads to fragmentation of data over distributed storage nodes. This introduces significant performance overhead at the level of individual database transactions (e.g., CRUD transactions) and negatively affects the overall scalability.To address these challenges, we present a dedicated data mapping strategy that leverages the data schema flexibility of columnar NoSQL databases to accomplish dynamic and fine-grained data encryption in a more efficient and scalable manner. We validate these solutions in the context of an industrial multi-tenant SaaS application and conduct a comprehensive performance evaluation. The results confirm that the proposed data mapping strategy indeed yields scalability and performance improvements.  2017 IEEE.;Cloud data storage
Predicting the individual mood level based on diary data;Understanding mood changes of individuals with depressive disorders is crucial in order to guide personalized therapeutic interventions. Based on diary data, in which clients of an online depression treatment report their activities as free text, we categorize these activities and predict the mood level of clients. We apply a bag-of-words text-mining approach for activity categorization and explore recurrent neuronal networks to support this task. Using the identified activities, we develop partial ordered logit models with varying levels of heterogeneity among clients to predict their mood. We estimate the parameters of these models by employing Markov Chain Monte Carlo techniques and compare the models regarding their predictive performance. Therefore, by combining text-mining and Bayesian estimation techniques, we apply a two-stage analysis approach in order to reveal relationships between various activity categories and the individual mood level. Our findings indicate that the mood level is influenced negatively when participants report about sickness or rumination. Social activities have a positive influence on the mood. By understanding the influences of daily activities on the individual mood level, we hope to improve the efficacy of online behavior therapy, provide support in the context of clinical decision-making, and contribute to the development of personalized interventions.  2017 Proceedings of the 25th European Conference on Information Systems, ECIS 2017. All rights reserved.;Bayesian method
Detection of in-progress phone calls using smartphone proximity and orientation sensors;Smartphones are equipped with embedded sensors, which have been widely used for human activity recognition, context monitoring, and localisation. In this paper, we use smartphone sensors to detect in-progress phone calls and classify the caller's activity states. Phone call detection has a number of practical uses: it can be used to monitor activities at places where calls are forbidden and it can be used to assist activity recognition schemes.We propose a real-time phone call detection scheme using smartphone proximity and orientation sensor data and design Android applications to record, upload and display sensor data. We classify the caller's activity states into three categories: sitting/standing, lying down, and walking. Features are extracted from proximity and orientation sensors to train classifiers using different classification algorithms (Naive bayes, logistic regression, and support vector machine). Experiments show our system achieves an overall accuracy of 91% in successfully detecting and classifying phone calls.  2017 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.;Human activity recognition
MINIMAR (MINimum information for medical AI reporting): Developing reporting standards for artificial intelligence in health care;The rise of digital data and computing power have contributed to significant advancements in artificial intelligence (AI), leading to the use of classification and prediction models in health care to enhance clinical decision-making for diagnosis, treatment and prognosis. However, such advances are limited by the lack of reporting standards for the data used to develop those models, the model architecture, and the model evaluation and validation processes. Here, we present MINIMAR (MINimum Information for Medical AI Reporting), a proposal describing the minimum information necessary to understand intended predictions, target populations, and hidden biases, and the ability to generalize these emerging technologies. We call for a standard to accurately and responsibly report on AI in health care. This will facilitate the design and implementation of these models and promote the development and use of associated clinical decision support tools, as well as manage concerns regarding accuracy and bias.  The Author(s) 2020.;Artificial intelligence
Improving Mental Health Services: A 50-Year Journey from Randomized Experiments to Artificial Intelligence and Precision Mental Health;This conceptual paper describes the current state of mental health services, identifies critical problems, and suggests how to solve them. I focus on the potential contributions of artificial intelligence and precision mental health to improving mental health services. Toward that end, I draw upon my own research, which has changed over the last half century, to highlight the need to transform the way we conduct mental health services research. I identify exemplars from the emerging literature on artificial intelligence and precision approaches to treatment in which there is an attempt to personalize or fit the treatment to the client in order to produce more effective interventions.  2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Artificial intelligence
The ethics of AI in health care: A mapping review;This article presents a mapping review of the literature concerning the ethics of artificial intelligence (AI) in health care. The goal of this review is to summarise current debates and identify open questions for future research. Five literature databases were searched to support the following research question: how can the primary ethical risks presented by AI-health be categorised, and what issues must policymakers, regulators and developers consider in order to be ‘ethically mindful? A series of screening stages were carried out—for example, removing articles that focused on digital health in general (e.g. data sharing, data access, data privacy, surveillance/nudging, consent, ownership of health data, evidence of efficacy)—yielding a total of 156 papers that were included in the review. We find that ethical issues can be (a) epistemic, related to misguided, inconclusive or inscrutable evidence;
Conversational agents in health care: Scoping review and conceptual analysis;Background: Conversational agents, also known as chatbots, are computer programs designed to simulate human text or verbal conversations. They are increasingly used in a range of fields, including health care. By enabling better accessibility, personalization, and efficiency, conversational agents have the potential to improve patient care. Objective: This study aimed to review the current applications, gaps, and challenges in the literature on conversational agents in health care and provide recommendations for their future research, design, and application. Methods: We performed a scoping review. A broad literature search was performed in MEDLINE (Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online;
Sensor Technologies for Fall Detection Systems: A Review;The risk of falls in older adults restrict their social life and independent living. The assisted living devices help older adults to live independently in their home, giving a psychological boost, and releasing the burden on the caregiver and the healthcare providers. A robust and accurate fall detection system is essential to provide immediate help and to reduce the severe post-fall consequences, and the associated medical care cost significantly. This review aims to provide a comprehensive technical insight into the existing fall detection system, to classify various approaches and the challenges encountered during implementation. The fall detectors are broadly classified into three categories, namely wearable, ambiance-based, and hybrid sensing detectors, which are further explored by the sensor technology. This review provides a comprehensive overview of each competing sensor technology ranging from an accelerometer, pressure sensor, and radar to camera-based and their infusion into a complete fall detection system. It outlines the strength and limitations of different sensor fall detection systems in terms of feature extraction, classification, performance, and experimental dataset. The user adaptability, installation complexity, and power requirement of the systems are the main areas, which are not addressed adequately in the literature. In the end, the review provides a basic framework in deciding the technology for a specific scenario or location according to the prerequisites for the deployment.  2001-2012 IEEE.;Assisted living
Blockchain Meets Cloud Computing: A Survey;Blockchain technology has been deemed to be an ideal choice for strengthening existing computing systems in varied manners. As one of the network-enabled technologies, cloud computing has been broadly adopted in the industry through numerous cloud service models. Fusing blockchain technology with existing cloud systems has a great potential in both functionality/performance enhancement and security/privacy improvement. The question remains on how blockchain technology inserts into current deployed cloud solutions and enables the reengineering of cloud datacenter. This survey addresses this issue and investigates recent efforts in the technical fusion of blockchain and clouds. Three technical dimensions roughly are covered in this work. First, we concern the service model and review an emerging cloud-relevant blockchain service model, Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS);
Assessment of a medical information system: the mediating role of use and user satisfaction on the success of human interaction with the mobile healthcare system (iHeart);iHeart is a mobile healthcare system which monitors and tracks patients with hypertension and arrhythmia. This empirical study aims to assess the interaction between human and iHeart. In line with this, a survey was conducted among healthcare professional in two cities of Isfahan and Penang to find how intention to “Use” of iHeart and “User satisfaction” conveys the role of effective factors [Information Quality (IQ), Service Quality (SQ), System Quality (SysQ), Trust (Tr), Anxiety (Ax), and mHealth Literacy (mHL)] to the “Success of Human Interaction (SHI)” with iHeart. The total number of 323 respondents returned the questionnaire. Using DeLone and McLean IS success model, a conceptual model was developed to identify the mediating effects of “Use” and “User satisfaction”. Covariance-based structural equation modelling was applied for data analysis using the statistical software AMOS. In this study, mediation effect was examined in three different methods including Baron and Kenny, Sobel test, and Bootstrapping technique. The most reliable results are from bootstrapping technique, which indicate that “Use” mediates the effects of SysQ, Tr, and mHL on SHI. In addition, “User satisfaction” is a mediator between SysQ, SQ, and mHL with SHI. Ultimately, IQ has direct effect on SHI without involvement of mediator.  2019, Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature.;Assessment
Retinal blood vessel segmentation based on densely connected U-Net;The segmentation of blood vessels from retinal images is an important and challenging task in medical analysis and diagnosis. This paper proposes a new architecture of the U-Net network for retinal blood vessel segmentation. Adding dense block to U-Net network makes each layer's input come from the all previous layer's output which improves the segmentation accuracy of small blood vessels. The effectiveness of the proposed method has been evaluated on two public datasets (DRIVE and CHASE_DB1). The obtained results (DRIVE：Acc = 0.9559，AUC = 0.9793，CHASE_DB1：Acc = 0.9488，AUC = 0.9785) demonstrate the better performance of the proposed method compared to the state-of-the-art methods. Also, the results show that our method achieves better results for the segmentation of small blood vessels and can be helpful to evaluate related ophthalmic diseases.  2020 the Author(s), licensee AIMS Press. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0);Blood vessel segmentation
m-SFT: A novel mobile health system to assess the elderly physical condition;The development of innovative solutions that allow the aging population to remain healthier and independent longer is essential to alleviate the burden that this increasing segment of the population supposes for the long term sustainability of the public health systems. It has been claimed that promoting physical activity could prevent functional decline. However, given the vulnerability of this population, the activity prescription requires to be tailored to the individual’s physical condition. We propose mobile Senior Fitness Test (m-SFT), a novel m-health system, that allows the health practitioner to determine the elderly physical condition by implementing a smartphone-based version of the senior fitness test (SFT). The technical reliability of m-SFT has been tested by carrying out a comparative study in seven volunteers (53–61 years) between the original SFT and the proposed m-health system obtaining high agreement (intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) between 0.93 and 0.99). The system usability has been evaluated by 34 independent health experts (mean = 36.64 years;
A multicenter random forest model for effective prognosis prediction in collaborative clinical research network;Background: The accuracy of a prognostic prediction model has become an essential aspect of the quality and reliability of the health-related decisions made by clinicians in modern medicine. Unfortunately, individual institutions often lack sufficient samples, which might not provide sufficient statistical power for models. One mitigation is to expand data collection from a single institution to multiple centers to collectively increase the sample size. However, sharing sensitive biomedical data for research involves complicated issues. Machine learning models such as random forests (RF), though they are commonly used and achieve good performances for prognostic prediction, usually suffer worse performance under multicenter privacy-preserving data mining scenarios compared to a centrally trained version. Methods and materials: In this study, a multicenter random forest prognosis prediction model is proposed that enables federated clinical data mining from horizontally partitioned datasets. By using a novel data enhancement approach based on a differentially private generative adversarial network customized to clinical prognosis data, the proposed model is able to provide a multicenter RF model with performances on par with—or even better than—centrally trained RF but without the need to aggregate the raw data. Moreover, our model also incorporates an importance ranking step designed for feature selection without sharing patient-level information. Result: The proposed model was evaluated on colorectal cancer datasets from the US and China. Two groups of datasets with different levels of heterogeneity within the collaborative research network were selected. First, we compare the performance of the distributed random forest model under different privacy parameters with different percentages of enhancement datasets and validate the effectiveness and plausibility of our approach. Then, we compare the discrimination and calibration ability of the proposed multicenter random forest with a centrally trained random forest model and other tree-based classifiers as well as some commonly used machine learning methods. The results show that the proposed model can provide better prediction performance in terms of discrimination and calibration ability than the centrally trained RF model or the other candidate models while following the privacy-preserving rules in both groups. Additionally, good discrimination and calibration ability are shown on the simplified model based on the feature importance ranking in the proposed approach. Conclusion: The proposed random forest model exhibits ideal prediction capability using multicenter clinical data and overcomes the performance limitation arising from privacy guarantees. It can also provide feature importance ranking across institutions without pooling the data at a central site. This study offers a practical solution for building a prognosis prediction model in the collaborative clinical research network and solves practical issues in real-world applications of medical artificial intelligence.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;Clinical decision support
The effects of data entry structure on patients’ perceptions of information quality in Health Information Exchange (HIE);Background and objective: To exchange patient health information using Health Information Exchange (HIE) projects, such information first should be collected thoroughly using an appropriate data entry interface that reinforces information quality (IQ). Assessment of the given data interface based on its structure level may give us a better understanding of patients’ attitudes toward information-sharing efforts. The main objective of this study is to examine the effects of data structure on perceptions and attitudes of patients toward the quality of health information that may be shared through HIE networks. Materials and Methods: Eight experiments were conducted to examine the impact of different design of information collection interfaces (structured vs. unstructured) to record two types of health information (sensitive vs. non-sensitive) that can be used for two types of sharing purposes (health care vs. marketing). Results: Results show that the degree of data entry structure can significantly influence patients’ perceptions of completeness, accuracy, psychological risk, accessibility of data, concise representation, and understandability of health information. Discussion: There is a connection between data entry interface design and patients’ perceptions of the quality of health information used in HIE networks, which in turn, could lead to the development of best practices in interface design and data collection techniques. This may also improve interactions between patients and healthcare entities, enhance patients’ attitudes toward data collection procedures and HIE, and help healthcare providers use complete and accurate databases. Conclusions: We propose that healthcare professionals can tailor data entry interfaces based on the sensitivity of medical data and the purpose of information exchange.  2019 Elsevier B.V.;Data collection
Privacy-preserving conjunctive keyword search on encrypted data with enhanced fine-grained access control;Cloud storage over the internet gives opportunities for easy data sharing. To preserve the privacy of sharing data, the outsourced data is usually encrypted. The searchable encryption technique provides a solution to find the target data in the encrypted form. And the public-key encryption with keyword search is regarded as a major approach for the searchable encryption technique. However, there are still several privacy leakage challenges for the further adoption of these major schemes. One is how to resist the keyword guessing attack which still leaks data user’s keywords privacy. Another is how to construct the access control policy to prevent illegal access of outsourced data sharing since illegal access always leak the privacy of user’s attribute. In our paper, we firstly try to design a novel secure keyword index to resist the keyword guessing attack from access pattern and search pattern. Second, we propose an attribute-based encryption scheme which supports an enhanced fine-grained access control search. This allows the authenticated users to access different data although their searching request contains the same queried keywords, and meanwhile unauthenticated users cannot get any attribute privacy information. Third, we give security proofs to show that the construction of keyword index is against keyword guessing attack from the access pattern and search pattern, and our scheme is proved to be IND-CPA secure (the indistinguishability under chosen plaintext attack) under the standard model. Finally, theoretical analyses and a series of experiments are conducted to demonstrate the efficiency of our scheme.  2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Access control
A Comprehensive Survey of Enabling and Emerging Technologies for Social Distancing - Part II: Emerging Technologies and Open Issues;This two-part paper aims to provide a comprehensive survey on how emerging technologies, e.g., wireless and networking, artificial intelligence (AI) can enable, encourage, and even enforce social distancing practice. In Part I, an extensive background of social distancing is provided, and enabling wireless technologies are thoroughly surveyed. In this Part II, emerging technologies such as machine learning, computer vision, thermal, ultrasound, etc., are introduced. These technologies open many new solutions and directions to deal with problems in social distancing, e.g., symptom prediction, detection and monitoring quarantined people, and contact tracing. Finally, we discuss open issues and challenges (e.g., privacy-preserving, scheduling, and incentive mechanisms) in implementing social distancing in practice. As an example, instead of reacting with ad-hoc responses to COVID-19-like pandemics in the future, smart infrastructures (e.g., next-generation wireless systems like 6G, smart home/building, smart city, intelligent transportation systems) should incorporate a pandemic mode in their standard architectures/designs.  2013 IEEE.;AI; Social distancing;" wireless""";
Investigating Messaging Protocols for the Internet of Things (IoT);As the number of Internet of Things (IoT) devices proliferates, the magnitude and velocity of data continues to increase rapidly. IoT systems rely primarily on using messaging protocols for exchanging IoT data and there exists several protocols or frameworks that support distinct types of messaging patterns. Given that IoT devices typically have limited computational resources and processing power, choosing a lightweight, reliable, scalable, interoperable, extensible and secure messaging protocol becomes a very challenging task. As a result, it is not uncommon that IoT systems may employ multiple messaging protocols for supporting device heterogeneity and different message exchange patterns. In addition, basic similarities among existing several messaging protocols or frameworks that exist today for exchanging IoT data within IoT systems suggest the potential of interoperability. Given that IoT systems help facilitate the interconnectivity among distributed, heterogeneous entities, interoperability among existing messaging protocols will play an increasingly important role in simplifying the development and deployment of IoT systems. In this paper, we present a comprehensive review of the existing messaging protocols that can be used in deploying IoT systems. Throughout this paper, we highlight the protocols' distinctive approaches and applicability of using them across various IoT environments. In addition, we highlight challenges, strengths and weaknesses of these messaging protocols in the context of IoT.  2013 IEEE.;AMQP; Internet of Things; IoT; message queuing telemetry transport; MQTT;" XMPP""";
From sensor to cloud: An IoT network of radon outdoor probes to monitor active volcanoes;While radon in soil gases has been identified for decades as a potential precursor of volcanic eruptions, there has been a recent interest for monitoring radon in air on active volcanoes. We present here the first network of outdoor air radon sensors that was installed successfully on Mt. Etna volcano, Sicily, Italy in September 2019. Small radon sensors designed for workers and home dosimetry were tropicalized in order to be operated continuously in harsh volcanic conditions with an autonomy of several months. Two stations have been installed on the south flank of the volcano at ~3000 m of elevation. A private network has been deployed in order to transfer the measurements from the stations directly to a server located in France, using a low-power wide-area transmission technology from Internet of Things (IoT) called LoRaWAN. Data finally feed a data lake, allowing flexibility in data management and sharing. A first analysis of the radon datasets confirms previous observations, while adding temporal information never accessed before. The observed performances confirm IoT solutions are very adapted to active volcano monitoring in terms of range, autonomy, and data loss.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Data lake
Cyber-Physical-Social Systems: A State-of-the-Art Survey,  Challenges and Opportunities;It is the overriding trend of the present-day world that traditional systems and mobile devices are currently transforming into intelligent systems and smart devices. Against this backdrop, cyber-physical systems (CPSs) and Internet-of-Things (IoT) emerge as the times require. To achieve the parallel interactions between the human world and the computer network, IoT along with wireless mobile communication and computing open up some future opportunities as well as challenges for constructing a novel cyber-physical-social system (CPSS) that takes human factors into account during the system operation and management. In this article, a brief comprehensive survey is provided on some of the current research work that contributes to enabling CPSSs. Some crucial aspects of CPSSs are identified, including: the development from CPSs to CPSSs, architecture design, applications, standards, real-world case studies, enabling techniques and networks for CPSSs. To lay a foundation for the development of the upcoming smart world, we further propose a virtualization architecture and an integrated framework of caching, computing and networking for CPSSs. Simulations verify the performance improvement of the proposals. At last, some research issues with challenges and possible solutions are unearthed for researchers in the related research areas.  1998-2012 IEEE.;cyber-physical systems
Digitalization in surgery: What surgeons currently think and know about it—results of an online survey [Digitalisierung in der Chirurgie: Was Chirurgen darüber denken und was sie wissen – Ergebnisse einer Onlineumfrage];Background: The digitalization process is currently on everyone’s lips and sweeping changes in the field of public health and especially in surgery are to be expected within the next few years. Besides general issues, such as electronic health records and medical information systems, artificial intelligence, robotics and model-based surgery will decisively impact on the daily routine. In order to provide the necessary knowledge base, to point out related risks and chances and also to define fields of action for surgery, the German Society of Surgery commissioned a position paper on digitalization. A first appraisal in form of an online survey is the subject of this article. Methods: This article is based on an online survey of the members of the German Society of Surgery and selected members of other related societies. The survey asked for the members’ personal assessment concerning different aspects of the digitalization process and the respective state of knowledge as well as the impact on the field of surgery. Results: A total of 296 members contributed to this survey. According to their assessment, digitalization in surgery is currently associated with terms such as electronic health records and medical information systems but they also assume a relevant influence on their own activities and on the fields of interventional medicine and surgery. A relevant need for improvement of the current state of knowledge was highlighted, not only for general aspects of digitalization but also for surgically relevant issues in particular. The vast majority of interviewed members saw digitalization more as a chance for improvement than as a risk factor. Conclusion: According to the views of interviewed members of the German Society of Surgery the process of digital transformation will significantly impact the field of surgery. All those involved should feel responsible to contribute to and guide this process in order to maintain the surgically inherent requirements and to protect patient safety. The position paper on digitalization can serve as a basis and should define concrete recommendations for action. In the sense of an academic approach the new possibilities should be critically evaluated with respect to suitability and should be exclusively confined to applications that are beneficial to ourselves and to our patients.  2019, Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, ein Teil von Springer Nature.;Artificial intelligence
Developing GDPR compliant user data policies for internet of things;With recent adoption of Internet of Things (IoT) technologies and their use in industry, user data privacy concerns remain a major preoccupation of regulation bodies. The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) enables users to control their data and be informed about any devices involved in collecting and processing this data. The overall objective is to enable individuals to have full rights and control over their data assets and to be able to transfer their data without any unmitigated risk. Blockchains provide the benefits of a distributed ledger that can securely manage digital transactions - where the centralisation of data is eliminated. Blockchains have recently entered as an enabling technology into the IoT market, and used in a variety of different application areas. Blockchains enable the implementation of a more trusted system capable of processing operations between IoT services and sources of data. In smart buildings, for example, Blockchains support the formation of smart contracts as a means to give transactional capabilities to IoT devices, allowing users to keep data ownership and privacy using an immutable dataset. We describe how Blockchain technology can be used to develop an audit trail of data generated in IoT devices, enabling GDPR rules to be verified on such a trail. We describe how to translate a set of such rules into smart contracts to protect personal data in a transparent and automatic way.  2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Blockchain
A pervasive healthcare system for COPD patients;Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of the most severe public health problems worldwide. Pervasive computing technology creates a new opportunity to redesign the traditional pattern of medical system. While many pervasive healthcare systems are currently found in the literature, there is little published research on the effectiveness of these paradigms in the medical context. This paper designs and validates a rule-based ontology framework for COPD patients. Unlike conventional systems, this work presents a new vision of telemedicine and remote care solutions that will promote individual self-management and autonomy for COPD patients through an advanced decision-making technique. Rules accuracy estimates were 89% for monitoring vital signs, and environmental factors, and 87% for nutrition facts, and physical activities.  2019 by the authors.;Context-aware system
A review of data sets of short-range wireless networks;With the rapid development of intelligent devices, it is possible to communicate among devices without base-stations. There is a growing body of research on short-range wireless networks. However, to our knowledge, currently there is little guidance on how to choose the appropriate real data sets to study a specific area of short-range wireless networks, or to verify the proposed algorithms for a specific application. Therefore, this study reviews several real data sets collected by short-range wireless communication devices, analyzes characteristics of each data set, and classifies articles using each data set into several categories. By tracking the latest progress in short-range wireless networks and investigating how to use the real data, this study not only provides guidance for researchers who need to select data sets for analysis or application, but also provides a reference for those who want to perform experiments to collect new traces.  2019 Elsevier B.V.;Data collection
Ambulatory and laboratory stress detection based on raw electrocardiogram signals using a convolutional neural network;The goals of this study are the suggestion of a better classification method for detecting stressed states based on raw electrocardiogram (ECG) data and a method for training a deep neural network (DNN) with a smaller data set. We suggest an end-to-end architecture to detect stress using raw ECGs. The architecture consists of successive stages that contain convolutional layers. In this study, two kinds of data sets are used to train and validate the model: A driving data set and a mental arithmetic data set, which smaller than the driving data set. We apply a transfer learning method to train a model with a small data set. The proposed model shows better performance, based on receiver operating curves, than conventional methods. Compared with other DNN methods using raw ECGs, the proposed model improves the accuracy from 87.39% to 90.19%. The transfer learning method improves accuracy by 12.01% and 10.06% when 10 s and 60 s of ECG signals, respectively, are used in the model. In conclusion, our model outperforms previous models using raw ECGs from a small data set and, so, we believe that our model can significantly contribute to mobile healthcare for stress management in daily life.  2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Convolutional neural network
From Evolutionary Cryptography to Quantum Artificial Intelligent Cryptography [从演化密码到量子人工智能密码综述];How to use artificial intelligence to design high-intensity cryptography and make crypto-graphy design automation is a long-term goal. Chinese scholars combine cryptography with evolutionary computing, independently put forward the concept of evolutionary cryptography and evolutionary computing method for cryptography design based on the idea of biological evolution, to obtain variable gradual cryptography that reduces the magnitude of search space required for attacks. Research shows that evolutionary cryptography has achieved practical results in symmetric cryptography, asymmetric cryptography, side channel attacks, and post-quantum cryptography: more than one hundred good S-boxes (8×8) can be designed in one minute, and some of the cryptography indexes reach the best value. For typical post-quantum cryptography NTRU, evolutionary cryptography attacks are expected to reduce the key search space by 2~3 orders of magnitude. ECC security curve produces a base range that exceeds the curve published by NIST, and new curves have been found in the range of curve published by NIST. Evolution cryptography has some characteristics of artificial intelligence cryptography. Further combining with quantum artificial intelligence, it has not only obtained the best index of quantum computing for deciphering RSA, but also exceeded the theoretical maximum of IBM Q System OneTM with Shor's algorithm and the maximum scale of Lockheed Martin with quantum annealing to decipher RSA. In addition, the original research on the cryptography design was proposed, and the original research on the cryptography design based on D-Wave 2000Q systems was completed, which is expected to quickly produce a series of suboptimal solutions, achieve the function of one-time one encryption algorithm, enhance the security of cryptography system.  2019, Science Press. All right reserved.;Cryptography
Transparency in policy making: A complexity view;The literature on transparency in participatory policy making is flourishing. With the increased digitization of our world, recent work suggests that the digitally-enabled relationships of how policy makers and citizens observe each other may transform policy making in a fundamental way. In this paper, we use complexity theory to examine how digitally-enabled transparency affects the effectiveness of policy making in aligning citizens with the policy goal to improve collective human welfare. We map Kauffman's NKC fitness landscape model, a generalizable theory of co-evolutionary complexity, to the phenomenon of transparent policy making in order to explain how transparency as an enabling generative mechanism encourages citizens to align with the policy goal without exercising central control. In our framework, citizens are agents who co-evolve by adapting to information available in their citizen landscapes. These landscapes represent the citizens' decision context, which policy makers observe and modify throughout an iterative policy cycle. In our study we identify three types of transparencies that relate to three properties of the citizens' decision context: (1) individual decision interdependence;
Efficient EEG mobile edge computing and optimal resource allocation for smart health applications;In the past few years, a rapid increase in the number of patients requiring constant monitoring, which inspires researchers to develop intelligent and sustainable remote smart healthcare services. However, the transmission of big real-time health data is a challenge since the current dynamic networks are limited by different aspects such as the bandwidth, end-to-end delay, and transmission energy. Due to this, a data reduction technique should be applied to the data before being transmitted based on the resources of the network. In this paper, we integrate efficient data reduction with wireless networking transmission to enable an adaptive compression with an acceptable distortion, while reacting to the wireless network dynamics such as channel fading and user mobility. Convolutional Auto-encoder (CAE) approach was used to implement an adaptive compression/reconstruction technique with the minimum distortion. Then, a resource allocation framework was implemented to minimize the transmission energy along with the distortion of the reconstructed signal while considering different network and applications constraints. A comparison between the results of the resource allocation framework considering both CAE and Discrete wavelet transforms (DWT) was also captured.  2019 IEEE.;Compression
Privacy-aware relationship semantics–based XACML access control model for electronic health records in hybrid cloud;State-of-the-art progress in cloud computing encouraged the healthcare organizations to outsource the management of electronic health records to cloud service providers using hybrid cloud. A hybrid cloud is an infrastructure consisting of a private cloud (managed by the organization) and a public cloud (managed by the cloud service provider). The use of hybrid cloud enables electronic health records to be exchanged between medical institutions and supports multipurpose usage of electronic health records. Along with the benefits, cloud-based electronic health records also raise the problems of security and privacy specifically in terms of electronic health records access. A comprehensive and exploratory analysis of privacy-preserving solutions revealed that most current systems do not support fine-grained access control or consider additional factors such as privacy preservation and relationship semantics. In this article, we investigated the need of a privacy-aware fine-grained access control model for the hybrid cloud. We propose a privacy-aware relationship semantics–based XACML access control model that performs hybrid relationship and attribute-based access control using extensible access control markup language. The proposed approach supports fine-grained relation-based access control with state-of-the-art privacy mechanism named Anatomy for enhanced multipurpose electronic health records usage. The proposed (privacy-aware relationship semantics–based XACML access control model) model provides and maintains an efficient privacy versus utility trade-off. We formally verify the proposed model (privacy-aware relationship semantics–based XACML access control model) and implemented to check its effectiveness in terms of privacy-aware electronic health records access and multipurpose utilization. Experimental results show that in the proposed (privacy-aware relationship semantics–based XACML access control model) model, access policies based on relationships and electronic health records anonymization can perform well in terms of access policy response time and space storage.  The Author(s) 2019.;access control
Considerations for designing context-aware mobile apps for mental health interventions;This work identifies major areas of knowledge and proposes a set of relevant dimensions by area that must be taken into account in the design and delivery of context-aware mobile applications for mental health interventions. We argue that much of the related research has focused only on a few dimensions, paying little or no attention to others and, most importantly, to potential relationships between them. Our belief is that the improvement of the effectiveness of mobile interventions to support mental health necessarily implies that developers and therapists comprehensively consider the interaction between the proposed dimensions. Taking as a starting point the three areas of knowledge (Technology, Context, and Mental Health), we re-examine each area to identify relevant dimensions, discuss the relationships between them and finally draw a series of considerations. The resulting considerations can help therapists and developers to devise, design, and generate custom mobile applications in a way that increases the motivation and engagement of patients and, therefore, the effectiveness of psychological treatments.  2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Context-aware mobile apps
Classification of Soft Keyboard Typing Behaviors Using Mobile Device Sensors with Machine Learning;The amount of personal data stored on mobile devices has risen significantly during the past several years as a result of two developments: More people are using them, and sensors have become more advanced, capable of analyzing and classifying human activities such as walking, running, sleeping and cycling, and swimming. In this study, we propose a system to classify users’ typing behaviors based on the data produced by the built-in sensors and present a login use case scenario to validate the results. We investigate users’ unique typing and phone holding behaviors by examining the soft biometric (age, gender) and statistical features. Typing behaviors are classified by various machine learning techniques with the data inputted from accelerometer and gyroscope sensors. Artificial neural networks (ANN), k-nearest neighbors (k-NN), support vector machines (SVM) and RandomForest Classifier (RFC) algorithms, which are some of the most common algorithms, were applied for classification. In the user studies, we achieved accuracy of 98.55% for ANN, 100% for k-NN, 99.8% for SVM and 99.5% for RFC. The system is capable of device-based training and can distinguish the device owner’s typing behavior from those of others with 100% accuracy. The proposed system was tested on a developed mobile application prototype, and its applicability was shown through experiments.  2019, King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals.;Behavior analysis
A hybrid recommender system for patient-doctor matchmaking in primary care;We partner with a leading European healthcare provider and design a mechanism to match patients with family doctors in primary care. We define the matchmaking process for several distinct use cases given different levels of available information about patients. Then, we adopt a hybrid recommender system to present each patient a list of family doctor recommendations. In particular, we model patient trust of family doctors using a large-scale dataset of consultation histories, while accounting for the temporal dynamics of their relationships. Our proposed approach shows higher predictive accuracy than both a heuristic baseline and a collaborative filtering approach, and the proposed trust measure further improves model performance.  2018 IEEE.;Hybrid Recommender Systems
Design of an Intelligent Cognition Assistant for People with Cognitive Impairment;Research has shown that over half of those with MCI will develop dementia within 5 years. In 2017, approximately 50 million people have dementia in the world. Moreover, dementia is now the 7th leading cause of death. Now almost 600 thousand people aged 65 or over are MCI in Taiwan. The ratio of people aged 65 years or over in Taiwan will reach 20% by 2025. According to the results of several studies, 3-19% of adults over the age of 65 meet the criteria for MCI. The majority of care for PWCI is provided by family carers. Using assistive technologies (AT) to help PWCI live independently can reduce the costs of care for PWCI. AT can support communication, monitor and reminders to meet the requirements of socialization, safety and cognition for PWCI, respectively. In this research, we propose an intelligent cognition assistant (iCA) to improve living qualities for PWCI using modern assistive technologies. The system has three major functions: companion, cognitive rehabilitation and evaluation, and daily activities assistant. A friendly and intelligent dialog interface, digital cognitive exercises, multidimensional cognitive evaluation and activities monitors are provided to achieve these goals.  2018 IEEE.;Artificial Intelligence
Multi-Sensor-Fusion Approach for a Data-Science-Oriented Preventive Health Management System: Concept and Development of a Decentralized Data Collection Approach for Heterogeneous Data Sources;Investigations in preventive and occupational medicine are often based on the acquisition of data in the customer's daily routine. This requires convenient measurement solutions including physiological, psychological, physical, and sometimes emotional parameters. In this paper, the introduction of a decentralized multi-sensor-fusion approach for a preventive health-management system is described. The aim is the provision of a flexible mobile data-collection platform, which can be used in many different health-care related applications. Different heterogeneous data sources can be integrated and measured data are prepared and transferred to a superordinated data-science-oriented cloud-solution. The presented novel approach focuses on the integration and fusion of different mobile data sources on a mobile data collection system (mDCS). This includes directly coupled wireless sensor devices, indirectly coupled devices offering the datasets via vendor-specific cloud solutions (as e.g., Fitbit, San Francisco, USA and Nokia, Espoo, Finland) and questionnaires to acquire subjective and objective parameters. The mDCS functions as a user-specific interface adapter and data concentrator decentralized from a data-science-oriented processing cloud. A low-level data fusion in the mDCS includes the synchronization of the data sources, the individual selection of required data sets and the execution of pre-processing procedures. Thus, the mDCS increases the availability of the processing cloud and in consequence also of the higher level data-fusion procedures. The developed system can be easily adapted to changing health-care applications by using different sensor combinations. The complex processing for data analysis can be supported and intervention measures can be provided.  2019 Sebastian Neubert et al.;
IoT semantic interoperability: A systematic mapping study;The Internet of Things (IoT) is a paradigm in which the Internet connects people and the environment using devices and services that are spread in the user daily routine. In this scenario, different agents, devices and services are able to exchange data and knowledge using a common vocabulary or mappings that represent and integrate heterogeneous sources. This semantic interoperability is facilitated by the Semantic Web that provides consolidated technologies, languages and standards, offering data and platforms interoperability. In this context, this work reviews and analyzes the state-of-the-art of IoT semantic interoperability, investigating and presenting not only which Semantic Web technologies are employed but also the challenges that support the studies in this area of research. Copyright  2019 by SCITEPRESS – Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved.;Internet of things
Moving towards smart cities: A selection of middleware for fog-to-cloud services;Smart cities aim at integrating various IoT (Internet of Things) technologies by providing many opportunities for the development, governance, and management of user services. One of the ways to support this idea is to use cloud and edge computing techniques to reduce costs, manage resource consumption, enhance performance, and connect the IoT devices more effectively. However, the selection of services remains a significant research question since there are currently different strategies towards cloud computing, including services for central remote computing (traditional cloud model) as well as distributed local computing (edge computing). In this paper, we offer an integrated view of these two directions and the selection among the edge technologies based on MCDA (Multiple Criteria Decision Analysis) algorithms. To this end, we propose a foglet as a middleware that aims at achieving satisfactory levels of customer services by using fuzzy similarity and TOPSIS (Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution) to facilitate the rating and selection of services in the fog-to-cloud environment. Then, we describe the selection process with a numerical example, and conclude our work with an outline of future perspectives.  2018 by the authors.;Cloud computing
Mobile Assistive Technologies for Visual Impaired Users: A Survey;In this article, we summarize some of the recent advancements in assistive technologies that are designed for people with visual impairments (VI) and blind people. Present technology enables applications to be actively disseminated and to efficiently operate on handheld mobile devices. These applications include also those that require high computational requirements. As a consequent, digital travel aids, visual sensing modules, text-To-speech applications, navigational assistance tools, and the combination with diverse assistive haptic devices are becoming consolidated with typical mobile devices. This direction has opened diversity of new perspectives for practical training and rehabilitation of people with VI. The aim of this article is to give an overview about the recent developments of assistive applications designed for people with VI. In conclusion, we recommend designing a unified robust system for people with VI which provides the support of the different kind of services.  2018 IEEE.;Assistive technology
A Bilingual Scene-To-Speech Mobile Based Application;Scene-To-Speech (STS) is the process of recognizing visual objects in a picture or a video to say aloud a descriptive text that represents the scene. The recent advancement in convolution neural network (CNN), a deep learning feed-forward artificial neural network, enables us to recognize objects on mobile handled devices in real-Time. Several applications have been developed to recognize objects in scenes and speak loud their relevant descriptions. However, the Arabic language is not fully supported. In this paper, we propose a bilingual mobile based application that captures video scenes and processes their content to recognize objects in real-Time. The mobile application will then speak loud, in English or Arabic language, the description of the captured scene. The mobile application can be extended to further support eLearning technologies and edutainment games. People with visual impairments (VI), such as people with low vision and totally blind people, can benefit from the application to know about their surroundings. We conducted an elementary study about the usage of the mobile application with people with VI and they expressed their interest to use it in their daily lives.  2018 IEEE.;Assistive Technology
Securing Insulin Pump System Using Deep Learning and Gesture Recognition;Modern medical devices are equipped with radio communication chips enabling medical practitioners to remotely and continuously monitor patient's health. The conjunction of these medical devices with the radio communication chips and their internet connectivity exposes them to security and privacy risks. The insulin pump system is an autonomous, wearable external device, commonly used by diabetic patients to take insulin efficiently, as compared to manual injection through a syringe. Security attacks may disrupt the working of insulin pump system by delivering the lethal dose to patients and endanger their lives. In this paper, we ensure the correct dosing process of insulin pump system based on the combination of deep learning model and gestures performed by the patient. Specifically, we used Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network to predict the thresh hold value of insulin based on last three months log of insulin pump system. If the amount of insulin to be injected by the insulin pump system is greater than our predicted thresh hold amount, then our system asks the patient to perform the gesture. After successful recognition of the patient's gesture, our solution compares the suspicious value of insulin with patient's gesture and identifies an attack.  2018 IEEE.;Deep Learning
Distributed Trade-Based Edge Device Management in Multi-Gateway IoT;The Internet-of-Things (IoT) envisions an infrastructure of ubiquitous networked smart devices offering advanced monitoring and control services. The current art in IoT architectures utilizes gateways to enable application-specific connectivity to IoT devices. In typical configurations, IoT gateways are shared among several IoT edge devices. Given the limited available bandwidth and processing capabilities of an IoT gateway, the service quality (SQ) of connected IoT edge devices must be adjusted over time not only to fulfill the needs of individual IoT device users but also to tolerate the SQ needs of the other IoT edge devices sharing the same gateway. However, having multiple gateways introduces an interdependent problem, the binding, i.e., which IoT device shall connect to which gateway. In this article, we jointly address the binding and allocation problems of IoT edge devices in a multigateway system under the constraints of available bandwidth, processing power, and battery lifetime. We propose a distributed trade-based mechanism in which after an initial setup, gateways negotiate and trade the IoT edge devices to increase the overall SQ. We evaluate the efficiency of the proposed approach with a case study and through extensive experimentation over different IoT system configurations regarding the number and type of the employed IoT edge devices. Experiments show that our solution improves the overall SQ by up to 56% compared to an unsupervised system. Our solution also achieves up to 24.6% improvement on overall SQ compared to the state-of-the-art SQ management scheme, while they both meet the battery lifetime constraints of the IoT devices.  2018 ACM.;computation offloading
A New Inter-Domain Information Sharing Smart System Based on ABSES in SDN;With the continuous innovation and development of agent technology, the application of smart technique is gradually changing to intelligent and human-centered technology. Also, intelligent technique is involved in many fields, and software defined network (SDN) is one of them. SDN is one of the most popular and most promising new technologies in the current network area, which has particular advantages over other traditional networks. However, most of the research work focus on the efficiency and function of SDN, while the access control and ciphertext search function in SDN have not been taken into full consideration. In this paper, we propose a new smart system based on SDN. It also equips with the functions of fine-grained access control and searchable encryption function, which combines a novel attribute-based searchable encryption scheme (ABSES) with SDN architecture. Our construction realizes inter-domain information sharing, fine-grained access control, and ciphertext searchable function. The proposed ABSES effectively ensures the security of ciphertext stored in data center, and that users cannot obtain unauthorized information or illegal network resources without any certification. It reduces network bandwidth and local resources, while improving the scalability and flexibility of SDN access control at the meantime. Finally, our ABSES is proved to be correct and secure under chosen-keyword attack. The comparison with other representative attribute-based searchable encryption schemes demonstrates that our ABSES has somewhat better performance. The proposed new smart system can be used in human life and add more convenience to our daily life.  2013 IEEE.;attribute-based searchable encryption
Pattern recognition techniques for the identification of activities of daily living using mobile device accelerometer;This paper focuses on the recognition of Activities of Daily Living (ADL) applying pattern recognition techniques to the data acquired by the accelerometer available in the mobile devices. The recognition of ADL is composed by several stages, including data acquisition, data processing, and artificial intelligence methods. The artificial intelligence methods used are related to pattern recognition, and this study focuses on the use of Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). The data processing includes data cleaning, and the feature extraction techniques to define the inputs for the ANN. Due to the low processing power and memory of the mobile devices, they should be mainly used to acquire the data, applying an ANN previously trained for the identification of the ADL. The main purpose of this paper is to present a new method based on ANN for the identification of a defined set of ADL with a reliable accuracy. This paper also presents a comparison of different types of ANN in order to choose the type for the implementation of the final model. Results of this research probes that the best accuracies are achieved with Deep Neural Networks (DNN) with an accuracy higher than 80%. The results obtained are similar with other studies, but we compared tree types of ANN in order to discover the best method in order to obtain these results with less memory, verifying that, after the generation of the model, the DNN method, when compared with others, is also the fastest to obtain the results with better accuracy.  2020 Asociacion Colombiana de Infectologia. All rights reserved.;Activities of Daily Living (ADL)
The GapMap project: A mobile surveillance system to map diagnosed autism cases and gaps in autism services globally;"Although the number of autism diagnoses is on the rise, we have no evidence-based tracking of size and severity of gaps in access to autism-related resources, nor do we have methods to geographically triangulate the locations of the widest gaps in either the US or elsewhere across the globe. To combat these related issues of (1) mapping diagnosed cases of autism and (2) quantifying gaps in access to key intervention services, we have constructed a crowd-based mobile platform called ""GapMap"" (http://gapmap.stanford.edu) for real-time tracking of autism prevalence and autism-related resources that can be accessed from any mobile device with cellular or wireless connectivity. Now in beta, our aim is for this Android/iOS compatible mobile tool to simultaneously crowd-enroll the massive and growing community of families with autism to capture geographic, diagnostic, and resource usage information while automatically computing prevalence at granular geographical scales to yield a more complete and dynamic understanding of autism resource epidemiology.  2017 The Author(s).";Autism
Big data and data science applications for independent and healthy living;[No abstract available];
Nonparametric discovery of online mental health-related communities;People are increasingly using social media, especially online communities, to discuss mental health issues and seek supports. Understanding topics, interaction, sentiment and clustering structures of these communities informs important aspects of mental health. It can potentially add knowledge to the underlying cognitive dynamics, mood swings patterns, shared interests, and interaction. There has been growing research interest in analyzing online mental health communities;
SDN based communications privacy-preserving architecture for VANETs using fog computing;Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks (VANETs) have become the one of the most, reassuring, encouraging and the quickest developing subsets of Mobile Ad-hoc Networks (MANETs). They are involved smart vehicles, On-board Units (OBUs), and Roadside Units (RSUs) which convey by the temperamental wireless media. Other than lacking frameworks, forwarding elements move with various speeds. Hence, this postpones setting up dependable start to finish correspondence ways and having the proficient on the information move. As such, VANETs have the differing framework concerns and security troubles in getting the openness of universal accessibility, secure correspondence, exchanges, and notoriety the executives framework which impact the trust in coordinated effort and game plan between convenient frameworks. A new VANETs structure for secure communications is offered, and it contains two sub modules, the Software Defined Network (SDN) and the Fog Computing (FC). The SDN provides scalability, programmability complaisance, and the global information about the network, while the FC provides sensitive and location-aware services that meet future VANETs requirements. Additionally, we used the HABE encryption method to provide central security and offers secure and reliable communication. The proposed framework can address major VANETs problems by delivering Vehicle to Infrastructure (V2I) and Vehicle to Vehicle (V2V) communications. In this work, we demonstrated the communication example as well as the use case examples. We provide communication and computation performance along with security analysis. We provide the simulation results, in which we calculate the communication delays and the probability density function, and also compute the moving and running time with respect to the communication radius, that shows the method performs outclass for V2V and the V2I communications in terms of running time, moving distance, communication delays, storage, communication load and responce time.  2020 Elsevier Inc.;Communication
An intelligent knowledge system for designing,  modeling,  and recognizing the behavior of elderly people in smart space;In this paper, a context-sensitive descriptive language is proposed to design and model the daily living activities of elderly people. The objective is to simplify and represent correctly the knowledge collected by sensors (low level) and to have a relevant recognition of the person’s knowledge (high level). The proposed language is based on several rules and constraints through intelligent meaning. It is dedicated to a better understanding and semantic design and description of the behavior of elderly people. Subsequently, in order to provide a powerful knowledge recognition system, a hybrid Markov model is proposed to recognize and predict the activities designed by the proposed language. The proposed model is adapted to the reasoning of the new language. This allows providing a hierarchical and temporal relationship within the knowledge. It is responsible to recognize and predict the behavior of the elderly people efficiently. The flexibility and the intelligibility of the proposed language is proven and the accuracy of the recognition model is demonstrated which ensures the efficiency of the proposed knowledge recognition system.  2020, Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.;E-health
Apathy Classification Based on Doppler Radar Image for the Elderly Person;Apathy is a disease characterized by diminished motivation not attributable to a diminished level of consciousness, cognitive impairment, or emotional distress. It is a serious problem facing the elderly in today's society. The diagnosis of apathy needs to be done at a clinic, which is particularly inconvenient and difficult for elderly patients. In this work, we examine the possibility of using doppler radar imaging for the classification of apathy in the elderly. We recruited 178 elderly participants to help create a dataset by having them fill out a questionnaire and submit to doppler radar imaging while performing a walking action. We selected walking because it is one of the most common actions in daily life and potentially contains a variety of useful health information. We used radar imaging rather than an RGB camera due to the greater privacy protection it affords. Seven machine learning models, including our proposed one, which uses a neural network, were applied to apathy classification using the walking doppler radar images of the elderly. Before classification, we perform a simple image pre-processing for feature extraction. This pre-processing separates every walking doppler radar image into four parts on the vertical and horizontal axes and the number of feature points is then counted in every separated part after binarization to create eight features. In this binarization, the optimized threshold is obtained by experimentally sliding the threshold. We found that our proposed neural network achieved an accuracy of more than 75% in apathy classification. This accuracy is not as high as that of other object classification methods in current use, but as an initial research in this area, it demonstrates the potential of apathy classification using doppler radar images for the elderly. We will examine ways of increasing the accuracy in future work.  Copyright  2020 Nojiri, Meng, Saho, Duan, Uemura, Aravinda, Prabhu, Shimakawa and Meng.;apathy classification
Using ambient assisted living to monitor older adults with alzheimer disease: Single-case study to validate the monitoring report;Background: Many older adults choose to live independently in their homes for as long as possible, despite psychosocial and medical conditions that compromise their independence in daily living and safety. Faced with unprecedented challenges in allocating resources, home care administrators are increasingly open to using monitoring technologies known as ambient assisted living (AAL) to better support care recipients. To be effective, these technologies should be able to report clinically relevant changes to support decision making at an individual level. Objective: The aim of this study is to examine the concurrent validity of AAL monitoring reports and information gathered by care professionals using triangulation. Methods: This longitudinal single-case study spans over 490 days of monitoring a 90-year-old woman with Alzheimer disease receiving support from local health care services. A clinical nurse in charge of her health and social care was interviewed 3 times during the project. Linear mixed models for repeated measures were used to analyze each daily activity (ie, sleep, outing activities, periods of low mobility, cooking-related activities, hygiene-related activities). Significant changes observed in data from monitoring reports were compared with information gathered by the care professional to explore concurrent validity. Results: Over time, the monitoring reports showed evolving trends in the care recipient’s daily activities. Significant activity changes occurred over time regarding sleep, outings, cooking, mobility, and hygiene-related activities. Although the nurse observed some trends, the monitoring reports highlighted information that the nurse had not yet identified. Most trends detected in the monitoring reports were consistent with the clinical information gathered by the nurse. In addition, the AAL system detected changes in daily trends following an intervention specific to meal preparation. Conclusions: Overall, trends identified by AAL monitoring are consistent with clinical reports. They help answer the nurse’s questions and help the nurse develop interventions to maintain the care recipient at home. These findings suggest the vast potential of AAL technologies to support health care services and aging in place by providing valid and clinically relevant information over time regarding activities of daily living. Such data are essential when other sources yield incomplete information for decision making. Maxime Lussier, Aline Aboujaoudé, Mélanie Couture, Maxim Moreau, Catherine Laliberté, Sylvain Giroux, Hélène Pigot, Sébastien Gaboury, Kévin Bouchard, Patricia Belchior, Carolina Bottari, Guy Paré, Charles Consel, Nathalie Bier.;Activities of daily living
Integration of Blockchain and Cloud of Things: Architecture,  Applications and Challenges;The blockchain technology is taking the world by storm. Blockchain with its decentralized, transparent and secure nature has emerged as a disruptive technology for the next generation of numerous industrial applications. One of them is Cloud of Things enabled by the combination of cloud computing and Internet of Things. In this context, blockchain provides innovative solutions to address challenges in Cloud of Things in terms of decentralization, data privacy and network security, while Cloud of Things offer elasticity and scalability functionalities to improve the efficiency of blockchain operations. Therefore, a novel paradigm of blockchain and Cloud of Things integration, called BCoT, has been widely regarded as a promising enabler for a wide range of application scenarios. In this article, we present a state-of-the-art review on the BCoT integration to provide general readers with an overview of the BCoT in various aspects, including background knowledge, motivation, and integrated architecture. Particularly, we also provide an in-depth survey of BCoT applications in different use-case domains such as smart healthcare, smart city, smart transportation and smart industry. Then, we review the recent BCoT developments with the emerging blockchain and cloud platforms, services, and research projects. Finally, some important research challenges and future directions are highlighted to spur further research in this promising area.  1998-2012 IEEE.;Blockchain
A Systematic Survey of Industrial Internet of Things Security: Requirements and Fog Computing Opportunities;A key application of the Internet of Things (IoT) paradigm lies within industrial contexts. Indeed, the emerging Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), commonly referred to as Industry 4.0, promises to revolutionize production and manufacturing through the use of large numbers of networked embedded sensing devices, and the combination of emerging computing technologies, such as Fog/Cloud Computing and Artificial Intelligence. The IIoT is characterized by an increased degree of inter-connectivity, which not only creates opportunities for the industries that adopt it, but also for cyber-criminals. Indeed, IoT security currently represents one of the major obstacles that prevent the widespread adoption of IIoT technology. Unsurprisingly, such concerns led to an exponential growth of published research over the last few years. To get an overview of the field, we deem it important to systematically survey the academic literature so far, and distill from it various security requirements as well as their popularity. This paper consists of two contributions: our primary contribution is a systematic review of the literature over the period 2011-2019 on IIoT Security, focusing in particular on the security requirements of the IIoT. Our secondary contribution is a reflection on how the relatively new paradigm of Fog computing can be leveraged to address these requirements, and thus improve the security of the IIoT.  1998-2012 IEEE.;cyber-security
A systematic review on cloud storage mechanisms concerning e-healthcare systems;As the expenses of medical care administrations rise and medical services experts are becoming rare, it is up to medical services organizations and institutes to consider the implementation of medical Health Information Technology (HIT) innovation frameworks. HIT permits health associations to smooth out their considerable cycles and offer types of assistance in a more productive and financially savvy way. With the rise of Cloud Storage Computing (CSC), an enormous number of associations and undertakings have moved their healthcare data sources to distributed storage. As the information can be mentioned whenever universally, the accessibility of information becomes an urgent need. Nonetheless, outages in cloud storage essentially influence the accessibility level. Like the other basic variables of cloud storage (e.g., reliability quality, performance, security, and protection), availability also directly impacts the data in cloud storage for e-Healthcare systems. In this paper, we systematically review cloud storage mechanisms concerning the healthcare environment. Additionally, in this paper, the state-of-the-art cloud storage mechanisms are critically reviewed for e-Healthcare systems based on their characteristics. In short, this paper summarizes existing literature based on cloud storage and its impact on healthcare, and it likewise helps researchers, medical specialists, and organizations with a solid foundation for future studies in the healthcare environment.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Availability
EEG-based BCI emotion recognition: A survey;Affecting computing is an artificial intelligence area of study that recognizes, interprets, processes, and simulates human affects. The user’s emotional states can be sensed through electroencephalography (EEG)-based Brain Computer Interfaces (BCI) devices. Research in emotion recognition using these tools is a rapidly growing field with multiple inter-disciplinary applications. This article performs a survey of the pertinent scientific literature from 2015 to 2020. It presents trends and a comparative analysis of algorithm applications in new implementations from a computer science perspective. Our survey gives an overview of datasets, emotion elicitation methods, feature extraction and selection, classification algorithms, and performance evaluation. Lastly, we provide insights for future developments.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;BCI
Applying machine learning for healthcare: A case study on cervical pain assessment with motion capture;Given the exponential availability of data in health centers and the massive sensorization that is expected, there is an increasing need to manage and analyze these data in an effective way. For this purpose, data mining (DM) and machine learning (ML) techniques would be helpful. However, due to the specific characteristics of the field of healthcare, a suitable DM and ML methodology adapted to these particularities is required. The applied methodology must structure the different stages needed for data-driven healthcare, from the acquisition of raw data to decision-making by clinicians, considering the specific requirements of this field. In this paper, we focus on a case study of cervical assessment, where the goal is to predict the potential presence of cervical pain in patients affected with whiplash diseases, which is important for example in insurance-related investigations. By analyzing in detail this case study in a real scenario, we show how taking care of those particularities enables the generation of reliable predictive models in the field of healthcare. Using a database of 302 samples, we have generated several predictive models, including logistic regression, support vector machines, k-nearest neighbors, gradient boosting, decision trees, random forest, and neural network algorithms. The results show that it is possible to reliably predict the presence of cervical pain (accuracy, precision, and recall above 90%). We expect that the procedure proposed to apply ML techniques in the field of healthcare will help technologists, researchers, and clinicians to create more objective systems that provide support to objectify the diagnosis, improve test treatment efficacy, and save resources.  2020 by the authors.;Cervical injury
A correct-by-construction model for attribute-based access control: Illustration: web-based healthcare services;In this paper, a formal specification approach of the attribute-based access control (ABAC) is proposed using the Event-B method. We apply an a priori formal verification to build a correct model in a stepwise manner. Correctness of the specification model is insured during the construction steps. The model is composed of abstraction levels that are generated through refinement operations. A set of ABAC properties is defined in each level of refinement starting from the highest abstract level to the most concrete one. These properties are preserved by proofs with the behavior specification. The approach is illustrated in healthcare web services.  2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;A priori verification
A patient-centric health information exchange framework using blockchain technology;Health Information Exchange (HIE) exhibits remarkable benefits for patient care such as improving healthcare quality and expediting coordinated care. The Office of the National Coordinator (ONC) for Health Information Technology is seeking patient-centric HIE designs that shift data ownership from providers to patients. There are multiple barriers to patient-centric HIE in the current system, such as security and privacy concerns, data inconsistency, timely access to the right records across multiple healthcare facilities. After investigating the current workflow of HIE, this paper provides a feasible solution to these challenges by utilizing the unique features of blockchain, a distributed ledger technology which is considered 'unhackable'. Utilizing the smart contract feature, which is a programmable self-executing protocol running on a blockchain, we developed a blockchain model to protect data security and patients' privacy, ensure data provenance, and provide patients full control of their health records. By personalizing data segmentation and an 'allowed list' for clinicians to access their data, this design achieves patient-centric HIE. We conducted a large-scale simulation of this patient-centric HIE process and quantitatively evaluated the model's feasibility, stability, security, and robustness.  2013 IEEE.;Blockchain
Indoor human activity recognition using high-dimensional sensors and deep neural networks;Many smart home applications rely on indoor human activity recognition. This challenge is currently primarily tackled by employing video camera sensors. However, the use of such sensors is characterized by fundamental technical deficiencies in an indoor environment, often also resulting in a breach of privacy. In contrast, a radar sensor resolves most of these flaws and maintains privacy in particular. In this paper, we investigate a novel approach toward automatic indoor human activity recognition, feeding high-dimensional radar and video camera sensor data into several deep neural networks. Furthermore, we explore the efficacy of sensor fusion to provide a solution in less than ideal circumstances. We validate our approach on two newly constructed and published data sets that consist of 2347 and 1505 samples distributed over six different types of gestures and events, respectively. From our analysis, we can conclude that, when considering a radar sensor, it is optimal to make use of a three-dimensional convolutional neural network that takes as input sequential range-Doppler maps. This model achieves 12.22% and 2.97% error rate on the gestures and the events data set, respectively. A pretrained residual network is employed to deal with the video camera sensor data and obtains 1.67% and 3.00% error rate on the same data sets. We show that there exists a clear benefit in combining both sensors to enable activity recognition in the case of less than ideal circumstances.  2019, Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature.;Activity recognition
A paradigm of safety management in Industry 4.0;Safety management determines and implements safety policy. It is closely intertwined with industrial development. As the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Industry 4.0 presents new challenges and opportunities for safety management. The paper identifies three stages, namely, Safety 1.0, Safety 2.0 and Safety 3.0, for the evolution of safety management by considering safety principles, technologies and modes. A theoretical framework that integrates Safety 3.0 and Industry 4.0 is presented. Furthermore, knowledge graphs are developed with Citespace to explore the status of cross-topic research on safety management and Industry 4.0. Potential opportunities for integrating Safety 3.0 and Industry 4.0 are discussed.  2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.;automation technology
Ensembled deep convolution neural network-based breast cancer classification with misclassification reduction algorithms;Breast cancer (BrC) is the leading cause of abnormal death in women. Mammograms and histopathology (Hp) biopsy images are generally recommended for early diagnosis of BrC because Hp image-based diagnosis enables doctors to make cancer diagnostic decisions more confidently than with mammograms. Several studies have used Hp images to classify BrC. However, the performance of classification models is compromised due to the higher misclassification rate. Therefore, this study aimed to develop a reliable, accurate, and computationally cost-effective ensembled BrC classification network (EBrC-Net) model with three misclassification algorithms to diagnose breast malignancy in early stages using Hp images. The proposed EBrC-Net model is based on the deep convolutional neural network approach. For experiments, the publicly available BreakHis dataset was used and split into training, validation, and testing sets. In addition, image augmentation was adopted for the training set only, and features were extracted through the well-trained EBrC-Net. Thereafter, the extracted features were further evaluated by six machine learning classifiers, of which two best performing classifiers (i.e., softmax and k-nearest neighbour [kNN]) were selected on the basis of five performance metric evaluation results. Furthermore, three misclassification reduction (McR) algorithms were developed and implemented in cascaded manner to reduce the false predictions of the softmax and kNN classifiers. After the implementation of the McR algorithms, experiments showed that the kNN results were much better and reliable than the softmax. The proposed BrC classification model achieved accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity rates of 97.74%, 100%, and 97.01%, respectively. Moreover, the performance of proposed BrC classification model was compared with that of state-of-the-art baseline models. Findings showed that the proposed EBrC-Net classification model, coupled with the proposed McR algorithms, achieved the best results in comparison with the baseline classification models. The proposed EBrC-Net model and the McR algorithms are a reliable source for doctors aiming for second opinion in making early diagnostic decisions for BrC using Hp images.  2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Breast cancer
Smartphone as a monitoring tool for bipolar disorder: a systematic review including data analysis,  machine learning algorithms and predictive modelling;Background: Bipolar disorder (BD) is a chronic illness with a high recurrence rate. Smartphones can be a useful tool for detecting prodromal symptoms of episode recurrence (through real-time monitoring) and providing options for early intervention between outpatient visits. Aims: The aim of this systematic review is to overview and discuss the studies on the smartphone-based systems that monitor or detect the phase change in BD. We also discuss the challenges concerning predictive modelling. Methods: Published studies were identified through searching the electronic databases. Predictive attributes reflecting illness activity were evaluated including data from patients' self-assessment ratings and objectively measured data collected via smartphone. Articles were reviewed according to PRISMA guidelines. Results: Objective data automatically collected using smartphones (voice data from phone calls and smartphone-usage data reflecting social and physical activities) are valid markers of a mood state. The articles surveyed reported accuracies in the range of 67% to 97% in predicting mood status. Various machine learning approaches have been analyzed, however, there is no clear evidence about the superiority of any of the approach. Conclusions: The management of BD could be significantly improved by monitoring of illness activity via smartphone.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;bipolar disorder
Internet of Things and data analytics: A current review;With the advent of Internet and computing, we entered into an era with more people exchanging information over the Internet using devices like desktops, laptops, tablets, mobile phones, and similar data transmitting and receiving gadgets. This was a host centric communication approach. Internet of Things (IoT) is the next stage of technological advancement in computation, networking and communication with physical objects around the world getting connected to the network and exchanging data. This is an information centric approach. Thus it can be defined as an expanding physical network of dynamically increasing physical objects. The objects share information derived from their environments, reliably, and securely over the communication medium leveraging multiple protocols. The protocols involved are getting standardized to address the compatibility and interoperability issues. Each object connected is uniquely identified and controlled in the network. IoT finds its applications in many fields as environment monitoring, logistics, health care, automobile, controlled industrial environment, smart cities, and many more. As the devices, their cardinality and alignment, the data type, the data rate and specifics of the domain of the IoT applications vary;
Spatio-temporal abnormal behavior prediction in elderly persons using deep learning models;The ability to identify and accurately predict abnormal behavior is important for health monitoring systems in smart environments. Specifically, for elderly persons wishing to maintain their independence and comfort in their living spaces, abnormal behaviors observed during activities of daily living are a good indicator that the person is more likely to have health and behavioral problems that need intervention and assistance. In this paper, we investigate a variety of deep learning models such as Long Short Term Memory (LSTM), Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), CNN-LSTM and Autoencoder-CNN-LSTM for identifying and accurately predicting the abnormal behaviors of elderly people. The temporal information and spatial sequences collected over time are used to generate models, which can be fitted to the training data and the fitted model can be used to make a prediction. We present an experimental evaluation of these models performance in identifying and predicting elderly persons abnormal behaviors in smart homes, via extensive testing on two public data sets, taking into account different models architectures and tuning the hyperparameters for each model. The performance evaluation is focused on accuracy measure.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Abnormality detection
Detecting binge drinking and alcohol-related risky behaviours from twitter’s users: An exploratory content-and topology-based analysis;Binge Drinking (BD) is a common risky behaviour that people hardly report to healthcare professionals, although it is not uncommon to find, instead, personal communications related to alcohol-related behaviors on social media. By following a data-driven approach focusing on User-Generated Content, we aimed to detect potential binge drinkers through the investigation of their language and shared topics. First, we gathered Twitter threads quoting BD and alcohol-related behaviours, by considering unequivocal keywords, identified by experts, from previous evidence on BD. Subsequently, a random sample of the gathered tweets was manually labelled, and two supervised learning classifiers were trained on both linguistic and metadata features, to classify tweets of genuine unique users with respect to media, bot, and commercial accounts. Based on this classification, we observed that approximately 55% of the 1 million alcohol-related collected tweets was automatically identified as belonging to non-genuine users. A third classifier was then trained on a subset of manually labelled tweets among those previously identified as belonging to genuine accounts, to automatically identify potential binge drinkers based only on linguistic features. On average, users classified as binge drinkers were quite similar to the standard genuine Twitter users in our sample. Nonetheless, the analysis of social media contents of genuine users reporting risky behaviours remains a promising source for informed preventive programs.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Binge drinking
The shadows know me: Exploring the dark side of social media in the healthcare field;Nowadays, the increasing attention paid to the dark side of social media (SM) in the field of healthcare management has moved both researchers and practitioners to investigate the impact of Web 2.0 technologies with reference to SM, because of continuous distortion created by these SM platforms for patients and the real dark side they constitute, which affects both the patient sphere and its relative empowerment. Based on previous theoretical and managerial contributions, the paper aims to investigate both the bright and dark side of the effects of SM in the healthcare field, which affect improvements in patient empowerment. Notwithstanding, the exploratory study was developed through a common theoretical and conceptual framework to improve the understanding of emerging social and economic dynamics towards the paradigm provided by many studies on the dark side of Web 2.0. So far, established on previous contributions to the healthcare management domain, the exploratory study identifies a set of variables related to the conceptualisations of patient empowerment and the dark side of SM, with reference to cases of digital users both with and without chronic illnesses. Moving deeper, matching qualitative and quantitative approaches, the impact of the dark side of SM on patient empowerment was investigated using structural equation modelling through SPSS and R softwares, sampling about 650 individuals on the Italian population using computer-assisted web interviewing. Finally, results highlight considerable correlations between many dimensions explaining patient empowerment and the dark side of SM, showing a positive effect on the improvement in patient engagement, but potential critical risks and concerns due to a misinterpretation of online information highlighting the dark side of SM.  2019 Elsevier Ltd;Dark side
Biological motion during inflammation in humans;Biological motion is a powerful perceptual cue that can reveal important information about the inner state of an individual. Activation of inflammatory processes likely leads to changes in gait, posture, and mobility patterns, but the specific characteristics of inflammation-related biological motion have not been characterized. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of inflammation on gait and motion in humans. Systemic inflammation was induced in 19 healthy volunteers with an intravenous injection of lipopolysaccharide (2 ng/kg body weight). Biological motion parameters (walking speed, stride length and time, arm, leg, head, and shoulder angles) were assessed during a walking paradigm and the timed-up-and-go test. Cytokine concentrations, body temperature, and sickness symptoms were measured. During inflammation, compared to placebo, participants exhibited shorter, slower, and wider strides, less arm extension, less knee flexion, and a more downward-tilting head while walking. They were also slower and took a shorter first step in the timed-up-and-go test. Higher interleukin-6 concentrations, stronger sickness symptoms, and lower body temperature predicted the inflammation-related alterations in biological motion. These findings show that biological motion contains clear information about the inflammatory status of an individual, and may be used by peers or artificial intelligence to recognize that someone is sick or contagious.  2019 Elsevier Inc.;Biological motion
An intelligent optimization-based traffic information acquirement approach to software-defined networking;Internet of things (IoT) is a global information infrastructure that supports access to thousands of monitoring devices and user terminals. A large amount of monitoring data generated by IoT is integrated to cloud computing through the network to improve the quality of life of citizens. Fine-grained and accurate traffic information is important for IoT network management. Software-defined networking (SDN) is a centralized control plane as a logical control center, making network management more flexible and efficient. Then, we collect fine-grained traffic information in SDN-based IoT networks to improve network management. To acquire the traffic information with low overhead and high accuracy, first, we collect the statistics of coarse-grained traffic of flows and fine-grained traffic of links, and then we utilize the intelligent optimization methods to estimate the network traffic. To improve the granularity and accuracy of the acquired traffic information, we construct an optimization function with constraints to decrease the estimation errors. As the optimization function of traffic information is a non-deterministic polynomial-hard problem, we present a heuristic algorithm to obtain the optimal solution of the fine-grained measurement. Finally, we conduct some simulations to verify the proposed measurement scheme. Simulation results show that our approach can improve the granularity and accuracy of traffic information with intelligent optimization methods.  2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.;heuristic algorithm
Medical data sharing, harmonization and analytics;Medical Data Sharing, Harmonization and Analytics serves as the basis for understanding the rapidly evolving field of medical data harmonization combined with the latest cloud infrastructures for storing the harmonized (shared) data. Chapters cover the latest research and applications on data sharing and protection in the medical domain, cohort integration through the recent advancements in data harmonization, cloud computing for storing and securing the patient data, and data analytics for effectively processing the harmonized data.  Academic Press 2020. All rights reserved.;
Scalable and secure access control policy for healthcare system using blockchain and enhanced Bell–LaPadula model;Access control is a policy in data security that controls access to resources. The current access control mechanisms are facing many problems, due to the interference of the third-party, privacy, and security of data. These problems can be addressed by blockchain, the technology that gained major attention in recent years and has many capabilities. However, in the blockchain network, every peer maintains the same state of the ledger to view the complete history of transactions that leads to scalability issues in the blockchain network. To address the problem of scalability we propose an enhanced Bell–LaPadula model and categorized the peers and transactions in different clearance and security levels. The peers don’t have to maintain the complete history of transactions owing to the clearance level. To provide data security in the network we constructed a dynamic access control policies using a smart contracts. We test our model on a blockchain-based healthcare network. The Hyperledger Fabric tool is used to run a complete infrastructure of healthcare organization while the Hyperledger composer modeling tool is used to implement the smart contracts and to provide dynamic access control functionality on the blockchain network.  2020, Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.;Access control policy
Human behavior analysis: Sensing and understanding;Over the last decade, there has been a growing interest in human behavior analysis, motivated by societal needs such as security, natural interfaces, affective computing, and assisted living. However, the accurate and non-invasive detection and recognition of human behavior remain major challenges and the focus of many research efforts. Traditionally, in order to identify human behavior, it is first necessary to continuously collect the readings of physical sensing devices (e.g., camera, GPS, and RFID), which can be worn on human bodies, attached to objects, or deployed in the environment. Afterwards, using recognition algorithms or classification models, the behavior types can be identified so as to facilitate advanced applications. Although such traditional approaches deliver satisfactory performance and are still widely used, most of them are intrusive and require specific sensing devices, raising issues such as privacy and deployment costs. In this book, we will present our latest findings on non-invasive sensing and understanding of human behavior. Specifically, this book differs from existing literature in the following senses. Firstly, we focus on approaches that are based on non-invasive sensing technologies, including both sensor-based and device-free variants. Secondly, while most existing studies examine individual behaviors, we will systematically elaborate on how to understand human behaviors of various granularities, including not only individual-level but also group-level and community-level behaviors. Lastly, we will discuss the most important scientific problems and open issues involved in human behavior analysis.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2020.;Behavior/activity analysis
A privacy-preserving group decision making expert system for medical diagnosis based on dynamic knowledge base;Most of the present researches on wise medical incorporate a static supporting data, while medical knowledge and rules are featured with a dynamic change, which affect calculation efficiency and accuracy of the result. This paper combined data mining technology with expert system framework, established a medical expert system with a dynamic knowledge base. In the innovative dynamic system, samples were together with their classification results would be added to the knowledge base. In addition, privacy protection was considered in the expert system by means of data removal and conversion of attribute value. At last, for a comprehensive and precise evaluation of both numeric and character attribute data, we proposed a new similarity measurement algorithm termed as E–JD, which combinate Euclidean Distance algorithm with Jaccard Distance algorithm. For more improvement of the data classifasion accuracy, based on KNN and the dynamic knowledge base, the innovative algorithm of D-SNN was proposed, with a modification in the selection and decision of the nearest neighbor objects. The experimental comparison between 1NN, KNN, KNN-means and D-SNN algorithm, shows that the classification performance of the proposed algorithm, D-SNN, exhibits an impressive improvement.  2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Group Decision Making
The impact of transmission power on the performance of a WBAN prone to mutual interference;Wireless body sensor networks (WBANs) enable patients' vital signs to be continuously monitored in a way that causes no discomfort to them and that does not affect their privacy. These networks, however, may be located in some environments prone to interference caused by adjacent WBANs, such as hospitals. Consequently, network performance may deteriorate seriously due to this issue. We aim through this paper to investigate through simulation the impact of the presence of an adjacent BAN, when its transmit power varies, on the performance of a reference BAN. We are considering both the CM3A path loss model, described in the IEEE 802.15.6 standard for the 2.4 GHz on-body channel, as well as the temporal variation phenomenon. Performance evaluation is made in terms of packet loss rate (PLR). Simulations are carried out using the open source platform Castalia 3.3. The findings of the study have shown that the PLR is more important as the adjacent BAN's transmission power increases.  2019 IEEE.;2.4Ghz
New Features of Authentication Scheme for the IoT: A Survey;With the development of cloud computing and artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT) products are gradually entering every corner of our lives and changing the way we live. Yet traditional computer authentication protocol cannot be used directly in the Internet of things devices, because of its limitations (e.g., simple CPU structure, low storage capacity, weak computing power, etc.). Therefore, the authentication protocol for the Internet of Things is an essential ingredient for securing the internet of things. In this paper, we introduce the background of authentication protocol for the Internet of Things, analyze the differences of authentication protocol between computer and Internet of Things, and then illustrates the developing trend of IoT authentication protocol. Based on the thorough survey, we discuss the new features of the authentication protocol for the Internet of Things from three aspects: Description, solution. opportunities. At last, we specify some difficulties for the research of authentication protocol in the IoT.  2019 ACM.;authentication protocol
A dynamic access control policy model for sharing of healthcare data in multiple domains;Authorization models have been developed to prevent unauthorized access to valuable resources such as electronic healthcare records (EHRs). In an applied environment, such as the healthcare domain, there are several types of authorities that generate EHRs and other security parameters via central authority for their users and the attribute authorities. The use of a central authority introduces several challenges in terms of security and privacy due to the increased risk if the central authority is compromised or corrupted. Observing that this research area has not been well addressed to date, we propose and present the first decentralized multi-authority attribute-based access control (DMA-ABAC) model based on the policy model, which enables authorities to independently control their security settings. We present an access control framework for a dynamic cross-domain authorization model that combines Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) and Attribute-Based Group Signature (ABGS). This combination aims at providing flexible access control with resistance against reply and third party storage attacks and attribute collusion, and enhanced access control, privacy and selective attributes.  2019 IEEE.;Anonymity
MedBloc: A blockchain-based secure EHR system for sharing and accessing medical data;In New Zealand, there is currently no shared Electronic Health Record (EHR) system integrated between major healthcare organisations, such as hospitals, medical centres, and specialists. Thanks to its characteristics, blockchain technology can be a suitable platform for building a large-scale EHR system for New Zealand. In this paper, we present MedBloc, a blockchain-based secure EHR system that enables patients and healthcare providers to access and share health records in a usable yet privacy-preserving manner. MedBloc captures a longitudinal view of the patient's health story and enables patients to give or withdraw consent for regulating access to their records. To protect medical data, MedBloc uses an encryption mechanism and enforces a smart contract based access control mechanism for regulating access. MedBloc not only demonstrates how the blockchain can establish New Zealand's first shared EHR system but it shows how blockchain can potentially disrupt the entire medical technology domain.  2019 IEEE.;EHR Protection
Lightweight formalisation of adaptive middleware;The development of adaptive middleware systems is still a challenge due to the complexity of dealing with traditional adaptation issues, such as Why to adapt? When to adapt? Where is the need for change? What kind of change is needed? How is the adaptation performed? The emerging of new technologies (e.g., process mining) and maturation of existing ones (e.g., model checkers) create new opportunities to face those challenges. This paper presents an end-to-end solution for developing adaptive middleware that integrates software architecture concepts, lightweight formalisation and process mining to handle the mentioned challenges. The proposed solution allows developers to build adaptive middleware by working at a high level of abstraction, i.e., at the architectural level. In this way, it potentially reduces the effort to implement the middleware and reinforces structural, safety and quantitative properties at development time and when the middleware is already in execution.  2018;Adaptive middleware
On deep learning based algorithms for detection of diabetic retinopathy;Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the leading causes of avertible blindness worldwide. Early detection of the disease can help to save the vision of diabetic patients. Presence of exudates, hemorrhages, and microaneurysms indicate an unhealthy eye image. Deep learning models have triumphed in image recognition, object detection and biomedical signal classification. Convolution neural network based DR detection techniques are fast evolving and can identify complex features and thus can accurately classify even severe cases. The presented paper investigates the recent work done in diabetic retinopathy detection using deep learning and collating the milestones achieved to guide researchers working in this domain to the future trend.  2019 Institute of Electronics and Information Engineers (IEIE).;Convolutional neural networks
An open algorithm for systematic evaluation of readmission predictors on diabetic patients from data warehouses;Prediction models depend on the variables or input attributes that characterize the studied phenomenon. When data collected from databases and the phenomenon to modeling is complex (e.g. patient's health prediction), in many cases there is a need to construct representative variables according to the problem and then modeling and testing. Both processes can be automatized using algorithms to assess their fit with real data. A proposed algorithm wraps this modeling and testing process and looks for the variables constructed from knowledge, helping to fit to real data, and which could be used for any modeling problem that has both quantitative and qualitative mixed information. To test this approach, real data from ten years of diabetic patients records was used following the American Diabetes Association last recommendations to construct variables that could find high risk patients and evaluate the variables efficacy. The method could be used to improve data warehouse's framework and for this case, to help care institutions to deploy new health politics to adjust treatments and resource management for diabetic patients.  2018 IEEE.;Big data
Semantic interoperability in IoT and big data for health care: A collaborative approach;SI is used to exchange the information from one place to another place in an efficient and meaningful way. The data is generated from various heterogeneous devices, communication protocols, and data formats that are enormous in nature. This is a significant problem for Internet of things (IoT) application developers to make the IoT generated data interoperable. In the existing approaches there is lack of well-defined standards and established tools to solve semantic interoperability (SI) problem in IoT and big data applications. This chapter proposes a collaborative approach to address the SI in IoT and big data for health care applications. In the health care domain, the physicians and patients may interoperate with each other effectively and conveniently. Both IoT and big data are dominant technologies for health care applications. This chapter mainly deals with two use cases, namely (1) IoT in health care systems and (2) big data analytics in health care systems. Gruff and Tableau tools were used for performing experiments and analysis on health care data. The obtained results are convincing and support both patients’ and physicians’ health care data as semantically interoperable. This chapter summarizes, with supporting SI, the tools and developing methodologies in both IoT and big data analytics technologies for health care applications.  2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.;Big data
A Hybrid Approach for Document Analysis in Digital Forensic Domain;Our daily life is characterized by the continuous interaction with many devices and technologies, which build a digital ecosystem around each person. In this context, if, for example, it is necessary to investigate the commission of a crime, the adoption of digital forensic sciences is of fundamental importance. These disciplines are in fact concerned with gathering any information that may be of some interest to the legal system, in full respect of its nature and without its characteristics being altered in any way;
Interactive Data Cleaning for Process Mining: A Case Study of an Outpatient Clinic’s Appointment System;Hospitals are becoming increasingly aware of the need to improve their processes and data-driven approaches, such as process mining, are gaining attention. When applying process mining techniques in reality, it is widely recognized that real-life data tends to suffer from data quality problems. Consequently, thorough data quality assessment and data cleaning is required. This paper proposes an interactive data cleaning approach for process mining. It encompasses both data-based and discovery-based data quality assessment, showing that both are complementary. To illustrate some key elements of the proposed approach, a case study of an outpatient clinic’s appointment system is considered.  2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Data quality
Edge computing vs. Cloud computing: Challenges and opportunities in industry 4.0;With the technological development of advanced technologies and the use of the Internet of Things (IoT), the number of connected devices is increasing in manufacturing processes. As devices become more and more incorporated using more processing power, the big data is generated. However, increasing the generation of big data leads to problems related to processing and analysis. The current tendency of solving the problems of processing and analysis is via Cloud Computing technologies. However, more attention is dedicated of performing computations as close to the device as possible, relying on Edge Computing technologies. Motivated by these facts, this paper provides a comparative analysis of the roles of edge computing and cloud computing, summarizing challenges and opportunities of these technologies and providing their application in Industry 4.0.  2019, Danube Adria Association for Automation and Manufacturing, DAAAM. All rights reserved.;Cloud Computing
CrowdMed: A Blockchain-Based Approach to Consent Management for Health Data Sharing;The need for greater health data sharing is widely acknowledged in the healthcare industry. The provision of healthcare services and attempts to harness Big Data analytics are adversely affected by the fragmentation of medical data across healthcare providers. However, attempts to encourage greater data sharing have been unsuccessful due to privacy concerns and lack of motivation for patients to share their data. We propose CrowdMed, a medical data management framework to facilitate greater data sharing, empowering patients with full control over access to their medical data. The framework is fully transparent, ensuring that patients have full knowledge over how who has access to their data, and how their data is being used. Using blockchain as the foundation for consent management, patients can trust that only parties with permission can view their data. Permissions are also finely specified, and can be revoked or modified according to the patient’s wishes. Following these permissions, data is transferred automatically between parties, conveniently and efficiently alleviating the problem of data fragmentation. CrowdMed also addresses the lack of motivation for data sharing, incentivising patients to share more of their data for research purposes through reward tokens and an innovative pricing mechanism. The framework integrates fully with existing data storage architecture, aiding in its widespread adoption.  2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Blockchain
Wireless sensor network monitoring system: Architecture,  applications and future directions;Wireless sensor network monitoring systems (WSNMS) have emerged as one of the most promising research area due to reliable technology progress related to the deployed sensors. This solution is efficiently involved with advanced technologies such as internet of things (IoT) and physical cyber system (CPS) that are designed as a bridge connecting the real world to the digital world. This survey gives a holistic view of WSNMS based on a recent state of the art. We address WSNMS applications and its challenges to facilitate its deployment in real world. We demonstrate the synergy between WSN and the information and communication technologies (ICT) and its major specifications. Finally, we depict open research issues that need to be more studied in the future. We expect to help researchers to get basic knowledge on WSNMS and to open for them new opportunities in regards to understand new technologies considered as an evolution of WSN.  2019 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.;CPS
Mobile applications for stroke: A survey and a speech classification approach;Strokes are a cause of serious long-term disability and create an immense burden on healthcare. Among the sea of mobile applications for health, some target stroke patients, and most require active user cooperation. Our proposed application, collects data, without user intervention. We apply data mining methods to create personal feedback to the patient or doctor. We provide a survey of applications for mobile or wearables, specifically for stroke. We also survey papers that apply data mining to stroke. In addition to the survey, we present a feasibility study on using speech for classification of stroke patients. We created a new data set of unstructured speech recordings, increasing applicability. We present experimental results on classification of stroke patients. Our study provides promising insight to detecting stroke patients using a mobile application without requiring active user participation. Copyright  2019 by SCITEPRESS - Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved;Cardiovascular
The Application of Artificial Intelligence Technologies as a Substitute for Reading and to Support and Enhance the Authoring of Scientific Review Articles;To gain a comprehensive overview of new scientific findings with the enormous, ever-increasing amount of published information, we apply a new combinatorial approach that complements the process of reading scientific articles by supplementing artificial intelligence technologies. We present a combinatorial approach, which we illustrate in the form of a 'double funnel of artificial intelligence.' Our approach suggests to largely increase the amount of data at the beginning of the data collection process and to subsequently clean and enrich the data set in order to gain much more knowledge at the end of the procedure compared to a 'classical' literature review. We use natural language processing and text visualization techniques to uncover findings that are generally unbeknown to the human reader due to the inability to process very large amounts of text. By illustrating the individual steps using practical examples taken from use cases, we demonstrate the merits of our approach. With our methodology, we are able to reproduce findings from 'regular' review papers;
Efficient and secure ECDSA algorithm and its applications: A survey;Public-key cryptography algorithms, especially elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) and elliptic curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA) have been attracting attention from many researchers in different institutions because these algorithms provide security and high performance when being used in many areas such as electronic-healthcare, electronic-banking, electronic-commerce, electronic-vehicular, and electronic-governance. These algorithms heighten security against various attacks and the same time improve performance to obtain efficiencies (time, memory, reduced computation complexity, and energy saving) in an environment of constrained source and large systems. This paper presents detailed and a comprehensive survey of an update of the ECDSA algorithm in terms of performance, security, and applications.  2019 Kohat University of Science and Technology.;Coordinate system
Anomaly detection in ECG based on trend symbolic aggregate approximation;ECG anomaly detection is a necessary approach to detect disease Electrocardiography(ECG) signals before the detail diagnosis process in medical field to gauge the health of the human heart. Nowadays, there are many anomaly detection methods for ECG detection including supervised learning and unsupervised learning. For supervised learning, it requires the knowledge of expert and different types of Arrhythmia data for training. However, since the anomalies are less and unknown in many cases which are difficult to distinguish and be labeled, unsupervised methods are more suitable to detect the ECG anomalies. Furthermore, the existing unsupervised learning studies do not take ECG shape into account where different diseases have different shapes. In this paper, a novel simple trend aggregate approximation method is proposed, the relative binary trend representation are used to record the shape feature in original time series and to detect the anomaly heart signals by similarity comparison. We use the ECG dataset in UCR Time Series Classification Archive to obtain ECG time series data and the experiment results are assessed by means of sensitivity, specificity, false alarm rate measures which is robust and promising with high accuracy.  2019 the Author(s).;Anomaly detection
Using process analytics to improve healthcare processes;Healthcare processes are inherently complex as each patient is unique and medical staff deviate from protocols, often for valid reasons. Event logs collected by modern process-aware (healthcare) information systems provide a wealth of data and can be used to analyze the adherence to these protocols. Process mining is a young research area combining data science (machine learning, data mining, etc.) and business process management. Its main contributions have been techniques for process discovery (the automatic learning of process models from event data) and conformance checking (aligning observed and modeled behavior). However, existing techniques face challenging issues discovering high-quality process models in a healthcare setting. In this chapter we introduce the key concepts of process mining such as event logs, process models, and process discovery. We then show the application of two recent process mining techniques on a public event data set from the healthcare domain to demonstrate how some of the common pitfalls can be overcome. A first presented technique projects data statistics on a process model, allowing the analysis of correlations between patient characteristics and the executed activities (e.g., type of treatment). A second technique analyzes process performance without a specific need for a process model by considering contextual information. It correlates process characteristics with process performance.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.;
Verifiable Multi-keyword Search Encryption Scheme with Attribute Revocation [支持属性撤销的可验证多关键词搜索加密方案];In recent years, searchable encryption technology and fine-grained access control attribute encryption is widely used in cloud storage environment. Considering that the existing searchable attribute-based encryption schemes have some flaws: It only support single-keyword search without attribute revocation. The single-keyword search may result in the waste of computing and broadband resources due to the partial retrieval from search results. A verifiable multi-keyword search encryption scheme that supports revocation of attributes is proposed. The scheme allows users to detect the correctness of cloud server search results while supporting the revocation of user attributes in a fine-grained access control structure without updating the key or re-encrypting the ciphertext during revocation stage. The aforementioned scheme is proved by the deterministic linearity hypothesis, and the relevant analysis results indicate that it can resist the attacks of keyword selection and the privacy of keywords in the random oracle model with high computational efficiency and storage effectiveness.  2019, Science Press. All right reserved.;Attribute revocation
Exploring breast cancer patterns for different outcomes using artificial intelligence;Breast Cancer is a complex disease characterized by multiple variables obtained from several data-sources, such as clinical, genetic or image sources. Over the past decades, various studies have tried to predict the outcome of breast cancer with the support of these data, and big advances have been done in this direction. However, only a few reports describe the causal relationships among the variables and outcomes, such as adverse events and survival rate, and usually they are very limited to a specific dataset. This research work presents a novel system that using data mining and visual analytics tools depicts in an intuitive way the patterns associated with different outcomes, such as treatment response and adverse events related to a treatment. For that the system processes heterogenous data coming from a real setting for primary breast cancer. This way clinicians can explore in a dynamic, fast and intuitive way whether certain group of patients are prone to certain outcomes.  2018 IEEE.;breast cancer
Survey on architectual and energetic aspects on fog computing environment;Fog Computing has attracted many researchers in past years as it overcomes several limits and challenges in Cloud Computing. Nevertheless, researchers still have to deal with several issues such as architectural and energetic aspects. In this paper, we investigate fog system architectures and energy consumption in literature, while considering QoS requirements in the synthesis. A system model is then introduced with a potential solution for QoS management for Fog Computing.  2018 IEEE.;Architecture
Quantile coarsening analysis of high-volume wearable activity data in a longitudinal observational study;Owing to advances in sensor technologies on wearable devices, it is feasible to measure physical activity of an individual continuously over a long period. These devices afford opportunities to understand individual behaviors, which may then provide a basis for tailored behavior interventions. The large volume of data however poses challenges in data management and analysis. We propose a novel quantile coarsening analysis (QCA) of daily physical activity data, with a goal to reduce the volume of data while preserving key information. We applied QCA to a longitudinal study of 79 healthy participants whose step counts were monitored for up to 1 year by a Fitbit device, performed cluster analysis of daily activity, and identified individual activity signature or pattern in terms of the clusters identified. Using 21,393 time series of daily physical activity, we identified eight clusters. Employment and partner status were each associated with 5 of the 8 clusters. Using less than 2% of the original data, QCA provides accurate approximation of the mean physical activity, forms meaningful activity patterns associated with individual characteristics, and is a versatile tool for dimension reduction of densely sampled data.  2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Citizen science
A Weighted K-SVD-Based Double Sparse Representations Approach for Wireless Channels Using the Modified Takenaka-Malmquist Basis;In this paper, a new double-sparse representation scheme for wireless channel is proposed based on the modified Takenaka-Malmquist basis (MTMB) functions. Given a series of wireless channel samples with different Doppler shifts, the MTMB functions are first generated from these samples, and then an initial dictionary is constructed by these functions. What is more, the completeness and orthogonality of this dictionary have been proved, which is the theoretical support that the dictionary can be used for the above sparsity model. Second, in order to make the MTMB functions fit into the sparsity model better, a training method is developed to obtain the adaptive public weighted MTMB (PWMTMB) functions based on the proposed weighted K-SVD algorithm. In this method, the unnecessary extra storage and computational complexity can be reduced by only storing the basis functions strongly associated with the wireless channels in the initial dictionary. Besides, different weights are given to the basis functions according to the prior information of these channels, so each has the proper level of influence in the weighted sparse coding stage of the weighted K-SVD algorithm. As a result, sparser representations of wireless channels can be achieved through these PWMTMB functions. In addition, the proposed method can also be implemented in parallel via updating multiple basis functions each time, forming the parallel PWMTMB (PPWMTMB) functions which can also be used as the sparse basis functions for these channels. Our results show that the PWMTMB and the PPWMTMB are able to suit these types of wireless channels, giving a sparse representation per each.  2013 IEEE.;parallel update
Artificial Intelligence Techniques Used in Medical Sciences: A Review;Artificial intelligence(AI) is more augmented intelligence and that is a fundamental philosophical direction it took where it is complementing people's intelligence with machines that have enough aspects of the intelligent problem solving capabilities that together the person and machine can do better than one or the other. Medical diagnosis is hard for humans it actually takes a lot of time without the help of intelligent machines. AIM (Artificial Intelligence in Medical) systems have been used in health care system mainly for diagnosis tasks. AI is the branch of computer science which deals with the machine intelligence and maximising chances of success and accuracy. Medical is the field where technology is much needed. Our expanding desires of the highest quality of health care and the quick development of ever more detailed medical knowledge leave the doctor without sufficient time to give to each case and attempting to stay aware of the advancements in his field. The main aim of writing this paper is to review the effectiveness of AI techniques in medical sciences and compare them.  2018 IEEE.;Accuracy
Optimal Sensing for Patient Health Monitoring;In this paper, we construct a framework for optimally sensing a patient's health state with a wireless body area network (WBAN). In such a resource-constrained paradigm, it is often necessary to use lower performance sensing modes, conditionally reducing system performance to increase efficiency and maximize system lifetime. The optimal control architecture trades between shallow and deep sensing modes according to the estimated patient health state, minimizing the expected costs over future states. We construct an implicit formulation for deriving the optimal sensing policy via dynamic programming, an easily implemented myopic sensing policy, and a useful performance bound for evaluating near-optimal approximate sensing policies. We further provide an Monte Carlo experimental evaluation of how such policies depend on key model parameters.  2018 IEEE.;
Evaluating doctor performance: Ordinal regression-based approach;Background: Doctor’s performance evaluation is an important task in mobile health (mHealth), which aims to evaluate the overall quality of online diagnosis and patient outcomes so that customer satisfaction and loyalty can be attained. However, most patients tend not to rate doctors’ performance, therefore, it is imperative to develop a model to make doctor’s performance evaluation automatic. When evaluating doctors’ performance, we rate it into a score label that is as close as possible to the true one. Objective: This study aims to perform automatic doctor’s performance evaluation from online textual consultations between doctors and patients by way of a novel machine learning method. Methods: We propose a solution that models doctor’s performance evaluation as an ordinal regression problem. In doing so, a support vector machine combined with an ordinal partitioning model (SVMOP), along with an innovative predictive function will be developed to capture the hidden preferences of the ordering labels over doctor’s performance evaluation. When engineering the basic text features, eight customized features (extracted from over 70,000 medical entries) were added and further boosted by the Gradient Boosting Decision Tree algorithm. Results: Real data sets from one of the largest mobile doctor/patient communication platforms in China are used in our study. Statistically, 64% of data on mHealth platforms lack the evaluation labels from patients. Experimental results reveal that our approach can support an automatic doctor performance evaluation. Compared with other auto-evaluation models, SVMOP improves mean absolute error (MAE) by 0.1, mean square error (MSE) by 0.5, pairwise accuracy (PAcc) by 5%;
Security threats in the internet of things: RPL's attacks and countermeasures;In the internet of things (IoT) vision, people, systems, and objects with sensing and/or actuating capabilities communicate to monitor and control the physical world. Nowadays, the IoT concept has attracted significant attention from different application domain such as healthcare and smart homes. Indeed, self-organization and self-configuration are key characteristics of IoT given that IoT represents a pervasive environment where objects are resource-constrained and communication technologies are very ubiquitous. These characteristics in addition to the vulnerability of objects themselves and of the communication channels make IoT more susceptible to malicious attacks. In this context, a deep analysis of IoT security breach and vulnerabilities is necessary. This chapter presents IoT requirements and existing threats as well as security protocols and mechanisms. It specifically analyzes existing and new threats against the IoT's routing protocol (the routing protocol for low-power and lossy networks: RPL) and presents intrusion detection solutions (IDS) to counter RPL attacks.  2018, IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Blockchain in voting system application;Two of the most familiar method of voting is through voting polls and online voting. The main problem with conventional method is the insecurity of the votes to be untemper. Another problem of voting methods is the existence of fraud in voting system. This paper is to propose a method in overcoming these flaws and problems by using the Blockchain technology. Blockchain technology is a secured database and has very high security. The technical concept of the Blockchain technology has many advantages and benefits that could be applied to many technical sectors and have the possibility in changing the world. The concept for this project is to develop a cryptocurrency implementation in the voting system. From there, the transaction votes are kept in the blockchain could be illustrated by examining the block hashes. The outcome of the project shows a transaction of coins from one voter's wallet into two candidates' wallet. The transactions were approved through a process of mining and the transactions of coins were a success. The data of the transactions were kept in the blockchain where unique blockhash, which acted as the block's fingerprint were generated. From there, the integrity of the blockchain technology is illustrated.  2018 Authors.;Blockchain technology
Survey on access control mechanisms in cloud computing;The benefits that Internet-based applications and services have given to the end user with today's cloud computing technology are very remarkable. The distributed services instantly scaled over the Internet provided by cloud computing can be achieved by using some mechanisms in the background. It is a critical task for end users to control access to resources because lack of control often leads to security risks. In addition, this may cause systems to fail. This paper describes seven different access control mechanisms used in cloud computing platforms for different purposes. Besides, the advantages and disadvantages of various models developed from previous service-based architectures and used for cloud computing are detailed and classified. During the assessments, NIST's metrics were taken as a reference, and in the study, 109 articles from the past decade were examined.We also compared our research with the existing survey papers.  2018 the Author(s).;Access control
Design and implementation of a mobile-health call system based on scalable kNN query;With the rapid development of social security service, people have higher demands for medical service. Therefore, it is the development direction of mobile medical construction to build humanized and personalized service concepts. Mobile Health is of great significance to the society and health. Because of the slow running and unsupported distribution, the traditional computer can't solve the current issue of big data processing in healthcare industry. Mobile medical based on mobile cloud computing environment can be a good solution to these problems. The research of k Nearest Neighbor (kNN) query in mobile cloud computing environments has become a popular topic. Supporting scalable and distributed spatial data indexes has a great impact on the efficiency of KNN queries. The existing query methods are not suitable for parallelization or lead to redundancy of content. In this paper, firstly, we introduce an inverted Voronoi based kNN query processing with MapReduce. Such a query tends to be applied in various fields including m-health treatment where medical services can be provided by hospitals, clinics and other medical institutions to meet more people's medical requirements in time. Secondly, we introduce a mobile-health call system based on kNN query. Thirdly, we build a novel efficient spatial data index: Inverted Voronoi Index, which contains both inverted index and Voronoi graph. Finally, we present the outcomes of extensive experiment that are gained by both real and simulated data sets which indicate efficiency and scalability of the proposed approach.  2017 IEEE.;k Nearest Neighbors
Latent sentiment topic modelling and nonparametric discovery of online mental health-related communities;Social media are an online means of interaction among individuals. People are increasingly using social media, especially online communities, to discuss health concerns and seek support. Understanding topics, sentiment, and structures of these communities informs important aspects of health-related conditions. There has been growing research interest in analysing online mental health communities;
Leveraging pushed self-tracking in the health insurance industry: How do individuals perceive smart wearables offered by insurance organization?;Mobile sensor devices such as smart wearables and activity trackers open up new opportunities to be used in the health care sector. Moreover, since the positive effects of wearable technologies on individuals have been examined, and with fitness trackers becoming significance in preventing chronical conditions which are typically caused by the lack of regular physical activity and causing problems in weight gain and obesity, diabetes and/or osteoporosis has led the statutory health insurance companies in different countries to introduce fitness trackers as part of their reward systems. The objective of this study is to empirically examine individual’s overall perception and experience with mobile fitness tracker, drivers as well as adoption barriers, with a particular focus on individual attitude and response when these trackers are implemented in novel services offered by professional health insurance companies. Based on 32 qualitative interviews with users, non-users and experts from insurance companies, our study will contribute toward a better understanding of individuals’ smart wearable perception and adoption in the context of health insurance companies.  2017 Proceedings of the 25th European Conference on Information Systems, ECIS 2017. All rights reserved.;Empirical study
The internet of things and assistive technologies for people with disabilities: Applications; and issues;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85016384099&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-5225-1820-4.ch002&partnerID=40&md5=7fec27bc4024506bf217f683e4fc765b;With the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the past two decades have seen aproliferation of Assistive Technology (AT) and its enabling impact on the lives ofpeople with disabilities in the areas of accessing information, communication, anddaily living activities. Due to recent emergence of the Internet of Things (IoT), thefields of rehabilitation, healthcare, and education are challenged to incorporatethe IoT applications into current AT services. While IoT applications continue tobe developed and integrated into AT, they are still at a primitive stage where clearguidelines are yet to be developed and benefits are yet to be substantiated to ensurethe quality of lives of people with disabilities. This chapter provides an overviewof the IoT and AT integrated applications based on the building blocks of the IoT,along with recent trends and issues relevant to accessing technology for peoplewith disabilities.  2017 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Classification of physical activities based on body-segments coordination;Numerous innovations based on connected objects and physical activity (PA) monitoring have been proposed. However, recognition of PAs requires robust algorithm and methodology. The current study presents an innovative approach for PA recognition. It is based on the heuristic definition of postures and the use of body-segments coordination obtained through external sensors. The first part of this study presents the methodology required to define the set of accelerations which is the most appropriate to represent the particular body-segments coordination involved in the chosen PAs (here walking, running, and cycling). For that purpose, subjects of different ages and heterogeneous physical conditions walked, ran, cycled, and performed daily activities at different paces. From the 3D motion capture, vertical and horizontal accelerations of 8 anatomical landmarks representative of the body were computed. Then, the 680 combinations from up to 3 accelerations were compared to identify the most appropriate set of acceleration to discriminate the PAs in terms of body segment coordinations. The discrimination was based on the maximal Hausdorff Distance obtained between the different set of accelerations. The vertical accelerations of both knees demonstrated the best PAs discrimination. The second step was the proof of concept, implementing the proposed algorithm to classify PAs of new group of subjects. The originality of the proposed algorithm is the possibility to use the subject's specific measures as reference data. With the proposed algorithm, 94% of the trials were correctly classified. In conclusion, our study proposed a flexible and extendable methodology. At the current stage, the algorithm has been shown to be valid for heterogeneous subjects, which suggests that it could be deployed in clinical or health-related applications regardless of the subjects' physical abilities or characteristics.  2016 Elsevier Ltd;Biomechanics
Residential mobility and lung cancer risk: Data-driven exploration using internet sources;Frequent relocation has been linked to health decline, particularly with respect to emotional and psychological wellbeing. In this paper we investigate whether there is an association between frequent relocation and lung cancer risk. For the initial investigation we used web crawling and tailored text mining to collect cancer and control subjects from online data sources. One data source includes online obituaries. The second data source includes augmented LinkedIn profiles. For each data source, the subjects’ spatiotemporal history is reconstructed from the available information provided in the obituaries and from the education and work experience provided in the LinkedIn profiles. The study shows that lung cancer subjects have higher mobility frequency than the control group. This trend is consistent for both data sources.  Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015.;Health data informatics
The evaluation of DSS SonaRes - The initial results;SonaRes is a decision support system for ultrasound diagnostics of hepato-pancreatic-biliary zone. It is intended to guide examination process, ensuring the access to a collection of images, finding similar images, generating the standardized reports.  2013 IEEE.;decision support
A novel time computation model based on algorithm complexity for data intensive scientific workflow design and scheduling;Scientific workflow offers a framework for cooperation between remote and shared resources on a grid computing environment (GCE) for scientific discovery. One major function of scientific workflow is to schedule a collection of computational subtasks in well-defined orders for efficient outputs by estimating task duration at runtime. In this paper, we propose a novel time computation model based on algorithm complexity (termed as TCMAC model) for high-level data intensive scientific workflow design. The proposed model schedules the subtasks based on their durations and the complexities of participant algorithms. Characterized by utilization of task duration computation function for time efficiency, the TCMAC model has three features for a full-aspect scientific workflow including both dataflow and control-flow: (1) provides flexible and reusable task duration functions in GCE;
Secure data analytics for smart grid systems in a sustainable smart city: Challenges; and future directions;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090571131&doi=10.1016%2fj.suscom.2020.100427&partnerID=40&md5=6c3b7e5d38fff625b9d927372661ab5d;A smart city requires an intelligent infrastructure to improve the quality of life with sustainable environment for its citizens. There is an exponential demand for efficient, secure, reliable, and uninterrupted electricity supply, so there is a need for an intelligent grid, which uses Information and Communications Technology (ICT) to optimize the generation, circulation, and ingestion of electricity. Thus, Smart Grid (SG) acts as an intelligent grid, which plays an important role in the overall growth of any smart city. Further, the Big Data (BD) generated from SG, provides noteworthy information that could significantly benefit different applications of SG, such as demand response and load profiling. However, an insecure technique for decision-making may lead to the breach of SG data where hackers gained full access to consumer data. On the contrary, a secure technique for decision-making can provide satisfaction to all the stakeholders, including consumers and utility providers. Motivated from these facts, this paper presents a comprehensive literature survey and analysis of state-of-the-art proposals for Secure Data Analytics (SDA) in the SG system. However, to achieve SDA for the SG systems is one of the critical tasks. The existing research and development endeavors not fully exploited the SDA in the SG system. In this paper, we discuss the distinctive nature of SDA and its complexity over the SG data. A detailed taxonomy abstracted into a novel process model, which highlights various research challenges such as secure data collection and preprocessing, secure load data processing and storage, load prediction, load management and analysis, data security and privacy issues, and data communication. Finally, a case study is presented to demonstrate the process model.  2020 Elsevier Inc.;Big data;
Adaptive middleware in go - a software architecture-based approach;Adaptive middleware is essential for developing distributed systems in several applications domains. The design and implementation of this kind of middleware, however, it is still a challenge due to general adaptation issues, such as When to adapt? Where to include the adaptation code? What to adapt?, and How to guarantee safe adaptations?. Current solutions commonly face these challenges at the implementation level and do not focus on the safety aspects of the adaptation. This paper proposes a holistic solution implemented in Go programming language for developing adaptive middleware centred on the adoption of software architecture principles combined with lightweight use of formalisms. Software architecture concepts work as an enabling approach for structuring and adapting the middleware. Meanwhile, the formalisation helps in providing some guarantees before and during the middleware execution. The proposed solution is evaluated by implementing an adaptive middleware and comparing its performance against existing middleware systems. As shown in the experimental evaluation, the proposed solution enables us to design and implement safe adaptive middleware systems without compromising their performance.  2020, The Author(s).;Adaptive middleware
Edge-computing architectures for internet of things applications: A survey;The rapid growth of the Internet of Things (IoT) applications and their interference with our daily life tasks have led to a large number of IoT devices and enormous sizes of IoT-generated data. The resources of IoT devices are limited;
Efficient time and space representation of uncertain event data;Process mining is a discipline which concerns the analysis of execution data of operational processes, the extraction of models from event data, the measurement of the conformance between event data and normative models, and the enhancement of all aspects of processes. Most approaches assume that event data is accurately captured behavior. However, this is not realistic in many applications: data can contain uncertainty, generated from errors in recording, imprecise measurements, and other factors. Recently, new methods have been developed to analyze event data containing uncertainty;
Serious games to prevent and detect bullying and cyberbullying: A systematic serious games and literature review;Serious games are an effective and highly motivational educational tool that has proved to be capable of changing users’ attitudes and raising awareness in a great variety of fields, including mental health. A couple of decades ago, new technologies in general, and serious games, in particular, started to be incorporated into prevention programs, serving as both prevention and detection tools. This article presents a review of the serious games found through a systematic literature review focused on the use of video games as tools for the prevention and detection of bullying and cyberbullying. With this review, we aim to determine: (1) the benefits of using video games as tools against bullying;
Integration of semantics into sensor data for the IoT: A systematic literature review;The internet of things (IoT) as an evolving technology represents an active scientific research field in recognizing research challenges associated with its application in various domains, ranging from consumer convenience, smart energy, and resource saving to IoT enterprises. Sensors are crucial components of IoT that relay the collected data in the form of the data stream for further processing. Interoperability of various connected digital resources is a key challenge in IoT environments. The enrichment of raw sensor data with semantic annotations using concept definitions from ontologies enables more expressive data representation that supports knowledge discovery. In this paper, a systematic review of integration of semantics into sensor data for the IoT is provided. The conducted review is focused on analyzing the main solutions of adding semantic annotations to the sensor data, standards that enable all types of sensor data via the web, existing models of stream data annotation, and the IoT trend domains that use semantics. Copyright  2020, IGI Global. Copying or distributing in print or electronic forms without written permission of IGI Global is prohibited.;Data Stream Annotation
Recommendations for enhancing the usability and understandability of process mining in healthcare;Healthcare organizations are confronted with challenges including the contention between tightening budgets and increased care needs. In the light of these challenges, they are becoming increasingly aware of the need to improve their processes to ensure quality of care for patients. To identify process improvement opportunities, a thorough process analysis is required, which can be based on real-life process execution data captured by health information systems. Process mining is a research field that focuses on the development of techniques to extract process-related insights from process execution data, providing valuable and previously unknown information to instigate evidence-based process improvement in healthcare. However, despite the potential of process mining, its uptake in healthcare organizations outside case studies in a research context is rather limited. This observation was the starting point for an international brainstorm seminar. Based on the seminar's outcomes and with the ambition to stimulate a more widespread use of process mining in healthcare, this paper formulates recommendations to enhance the usability and understandability of process mining in healthcare. These recommendations are mainly targeted towards process mining researchers and the community to consider when developing a new research agenda for process mining in healthcare. Moreover, a limited number of recommendations are directed towards healthcare organizations and health information systems vendors, when shaping an environment to enable the continuous use of process mining.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;Event log
Big data analytics in medical engineering and healthcare: methods;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85086834924&doi=10.1080%2f03091902.2020.1769758&partnerID=40&md5=1778a6f9cf88c2d6cd02826f7831f09e;Big data analytics are gaining popularity in medical engineering and healthcare use cases. Stakeholders are finding big data analytics reduce medical costs and personalise medical services for each individual patient. Big data analytics can be used in large-scale genetics studies, public health, personalised and precision medicine, new drug development, etc. The introduction of the types, sources, and features of big data in healthcare as well as the applications and benefits of big data and big data analytics in healthcare is key to understanding healthcare big data and will be discussed in this article. Major methods, platforms and tools of big data analytics in medical engineering and healthcare are also presented. Advances and technology progress of big data analytics in healthcare are introduced, which includes artificial intelligence (AI) with big data, infrastructure and cloud computing, advanced computation and data processing, privacy and cybersecurity, health economic outcomes and technology management, and smart healthcare with sensing, wearable devices and Internet of things (IoT). Current challenges of dealing with big data and big data analytics in medical engineering and healthcare as well as future work are also presented.  2020 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.;big data;
Toward detecting infection incidence in people with type 1 diabetes using self-recorded data (Part 1): A novel framework for a personalized digital infectious disease detection system;Background: Type 1 diabetes is a chronic condition of blood glucose metabolic disorder caused by a lack of insulin secretion from pancreas cells. In people with type 1 diabetes, hyperglycemia often occurs upon infection incidences. Despite the fact that patients increasingly gather data about themselves, there are no solid findings that uncover the effect of infection incidences on key parameters of blood glucose dynamics to support the effort toward developing a digital infectious disease detection system. Objective: The study aims to retrospectively analyze the effect of infection incidence and pinpoint optimal parameters that can effectively be used as input variables for developing an infection detection algorithm and to provide a general framework regarding how a digital infectious disease detection system can be designed and developed using self-recorded data from people with type 1 diabetes as a secondary source of information. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed high precision self-recorded data of 10 patient-years captured within the longitudinal records of three people with type 1 diabetes. Obtaining such a rich and large data set from a large number of participants is extremely expensive and difficult to acquire, if not impossible. The data set incorporates blood glucose, insulin, carbohydrate, and self-reported events of infections. We investigated the temporal evolution and probability distribution of the key blood glucose parameters within a specified timeframe (weekly, daily, and hourly). Results: Our analysis demonstrated that upon infection incidence, there is a dramatic shift in the operating point of the individual blood glucose dynamics in all the timeframes (weekly, daily, and hourly), which clearly violates the usual norm of blood glucose dynamics. During regular or normal situations, higher insulin and reduced carbohydrate intake usually results in lower blood glucose levels. However, in all infection cases as opposed to the regular or normal days, blood glucose levels were elevated for a prolonged period despite higher insulin and reduced carbohydrates intake. For instance, compared with the preinfection and postinfection weeks, on average, blood glucose levels were elevated by 6.1% and 16%, insulin (bolus) was increased by 42% and 39.3%, and carbohydrate consumption was reduced by 19% and 28.1%, respectively. Conclusions: We presented the effect of infection incidence on key parameters of blood glucose dynamics along with the necessary framework to exploit the information for realizing a digital infectious disease detection system. The results demonstrated that compared with regular or normal days, infection incidence substantially alters the norm of blood glucose dynamics, which are quite significant changes that could possibly be detected through personalized modeling, for example, prediction models and anomaly detection algorithms. Generally, we foresee that these findings can benefit the efforts toward building next generation digital infectious disease detection systems and provoke further thoughts in this challenging field.  2020 Journal of Medical Internet Research. All rights reserved.;Decision making
Mixed-dependency models for multi-resident activity recognition in smart homes;Recent growing interest in ambient intelligent environments has driven a desire for effective models to reason about activities of multiple residents. Such models are the keystone for the future of smart homes where occupants can be assisted with non-intrusive technologies. Much attention has been put on this research, however current works tend to focus on developing statistical algorithms for prediction, whilst there still lacks a study to fully understand the relations of residents’ behaviours and how they are reflected through the sensors’ states. In this paper we investigate the dependencies of the activities from residents and their interaction with the environments. We represent such dependencies in Bayesian networks that leads to construction of six variants of Hidden Markov Models (HMMs). Furthermore, we argue that a complete model should embody more than one type of dependency. Therefore, we propose an ensemble of HMMs, and then generalize it to a novel mixed-dependency model. In the experiments we perform intensive evaluation of our study on multi-resident activity recognition task. The results show that the proposed models outperform other models in three smart home environments, thus asserting our hypothesis.  2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Hidden Markov Models
A Systematic Literature Review of Computer Support for Surgical Interventions;Computer-assisted surgical procedures have become a major part of the development of robotics and medicine. These treatments can offer many benefits, such as a shorter recovery time, and improved quality and accuracy of diagnoses. We reviewed computer support literature for surgical interventions included in top peer-reviewed journals and conferences. Based on the review, we identify areas which are ready for computer support in surgical interventions and show future research needs-  2020 IEEE.;
PolyShard: Coded Sharding Achieves Linearly Scaling Efficiency and Security Simultaneously;"Today's blockchain designs suffer from a trilemma claiming that no blockchain system can simultaneously achieve decentralization, security, and performance scalability. For current blockchain systems, as more nodes join the network, the efficiency of the system (computation, communication, and storage) stays constant at best. A leading idea for enabling blockchains to scale efficiency is the notion of sharding: different subsets of nodes handle different portions of the blockchain, thereby reducing the load for each individual node. However, existing sharding proposals achieve efficiency scaling by compromising on trust - corrupting the nodes in a given shard will lead to the permanent loss of the corresponding portion of data. In this paper, we settle the trilemma by demonstrating a new protocol for coded storage and computation in blockchains. In particular, we propose PolyShard: ""polynomially coded sharding"" scheme that achieves information-theoretic upper bounds on the efficiency of the storage, system throughput, as well as on trust, thus enabling a truly scalable system.  2020 IEEE.";
Cuckoo-PC: An evolutionary synchronization-aware placement of SDN controllers for optimizing the network performance in WSNs;Due to reliability and performance considerations, employing multiple software-defined networking (SDN) controllers is known as a promising technique in Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs). Nevertheless, employing multiple controllers increases the inter-controller synchronization overhead. Therefore, optimal placement of SDN controllers to optimize the performance of a WSN, subject to the maximum number of controllers, determined based on the synchronization overhead, is a challenging research problem. In this paper, we first formulate this research problem as an optimization problem, then to address the optimization problem, we propose the Cuckoo Placement of Controllers (Cuckoo-PC) algorithm. Cuckoo-PC works based on the Cuckoo optimization algorithm which is a meta-heuristic algorithm inspired by nature. This algorithm seeks to find the global optimum by imitating brood parasitism of some cuckoo species. To evaluate the performance of Cuckoo-PC, we compare it against a couple of state-of-the-art methods, namely Simulated Annealing (SA) and Quantum Annealing (QA). The experiments demonstrate that Cuckoo-PC outperforms both SA and QA in terms of the network performance by lowering the average distance between sensors and controllers up to 13% and 9%, respectively. Comparing our method against Integer Linear Programming (ILP) reveals that Cuckoo-PC achieves approximately similar results (less than 1% deviation) in a noticeably shorter time.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Controller node placement
Risk Assessment of Private Information Inference for Motion Sensor Embedded IoT Devices;In the era of advanced computer intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT) provides fantastic services to users. However, users are suffering a severe risk of private information inference, which is caused by the leakage of motion sensory data from IoT devices. Existing works of risk assessment of motion sensor based private information inference underestimates the risk because they ignore the possibility of using advanced Computational Intelligence techniques and the variety of languages with different input methods. In this paper, we assess the risk of motion sensor based private information inference by considering the variety of languages with different input methods, advanced Computational Intelligence techniques, and reinforcement learning of personal usage habits. We collect data from real users and run simulations to provide an authentic and up-to-date risk assessment. Based on the simulation result, we discuss the risky usage actions and possible defense strategies for the Internet of Things users.  2017 IEEE.;computer intelligence
A novel approach combining temporal and spectral features of Arabic online handwriting for Parkinson's disease prediction;Background: Parkinson's disease (PD) affects millions of people worldwide, and it is predicted that this pathology will gravely increase in the next few years. Unfortunately, there's currently no cure for this disease, indeed an early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease can help to better manage its symptoms and its evolution. One of the most frequent abilities and usually also the first manifestation of Parkinson's disease is alteration of handwriting. New method: We propose a novel method to detect Parkinson's disease, based on the segmentation of the online handwritten text into lines. Indeed, we propose to compare Parkinson's disease patients and healthy controls, based on the full dynamics of new temporal and spectral features. Three classifiers were used, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machine and Decision Trees. The performances of these three classifiers were estimated using a stratified nested 10 cross-validation. All the models in this study have been evaluated using classification accuracy, balanced accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, F-Score and Matthews Correlation Coefficient. Results: An accuracy of 92.86 % was obtained with Decision Trees classifier in the last line. The new categories of spectral and temporal features gave the best classification performances in comparison to the basic statistical features. Comparison with existing methods: Previous studies have only focused on words or sentences. This is the first study to deal with the analysis of a text composed of several lines. Conclusion: The last line discriminates at best between Parkinson's disease patients and healthy controls. This obtained result has further strengthened our hypothesis concerning the fatigue occurring while writing in PD patients.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;Decision trees
Unsupervised human activity recognition using the clustering approach: A review;Currently, many applications have emerged from the implementation of software development and hardware use, known as the Internet of things. One of the most important application areas of this type of technology is in health care. Various applications arise daily in order to improve the quality of life and to promote an improvement in the treatments of patients at home that suffer from different pathologies. That is why there has emerged a line of work of great interest, focused on the study and analysis of daily life activities, on the use of different data analysis techniques to identify and to help manage this type of patient. This article shows the result of the systematic review of the literature on the use of the Clustering method, which is one of the most used techniques in the analysis of unsupervised data applied to activities of daily living, as well as the description of variables of high importance as a year of publication, type of article, most used algorithms, types of dataset used, and metrics implemented. These data will allow the reader to locate the recent results of the application of this technique to a particular area of knowledge.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;AAL
Adoption and attitudes of eHealth among people living with HIV and their physicians: Online multicenter questionnaire study;Background: The development of electronic health (eHealth) has offered the opportunity for remote care provision. eHealth addresses issues for patients and professionals favoring autonomy and compliance, respectively, while fostering closer links both between patients and health care professionals and among health care professionals themselves. Objective: The aim of this study was to analyze the patterns of use, benefits, and perceived obstacles in eHealth among people living with HIV (PLHIV) and their caring physicians at hospitals. Methods: An online multicenter observational survey was conducted October 15-19, 2018 in 51 medical units across France by means of self-administered questionnaires to collect sociodemographic and medical data, and perceptions of eHealth. Multiple correspondence analysis followed by mixed unsupervised classification were performed to analyze data of the respondents. Results: A total of 279 PLHIV and 219 physicians responded to all parts of the questionnaire. Three groups of PLHIV were identified based on multivariate analysis. Group 1 comprised “eHealth believers” (121/279, 43.4%), who were more frequently above 60 years old and more likely to be receiving treatments other than antiretrovirals. Group 2, the “technology skeptics” (86/279, 30.8%), comprised more women with at least one child. Group 3, the “internet adopters” (72/279, 25.8%), were more frequently under 49 years of age, men who have sex with men, and more likely to use mobile apps for obtaining wellness/health information and related subjects. Three groups of physicians also emerged. Group 1 comprised those “strongly confident in eHealth” (95/219, 43.4%), who more frequently used mobile apps for wellness/health information and were more likely to accept prescription assistance software. Group 2 comprised physicians “strongly opposed to eHealth” (80/219, 36.5%), frequently asserting that eHealth challenges confidentiality. Group 3 were “open to eHealth” (44/219, 20.1%), comprising a higher proportion of infectious disease specialists, and were more likely to believe that medical apps are useful for patient education and information. No link was found between the groups of PLHIV and physicians. Conclusions: The literature on eHealth mainly classifies people as enthusiasts and skeptics;
Big data and digitalization in dentistry: A systematic review of the ethical issues;Big Data and Internet and Communication Technologies (ICT) are being increasingly implemented in the healthcare sector. Similarly, research in the field of dental medicine is exploring the potential beneficial uses of digital data both for dental practice and in research. As digitalization is raising numerous novel and unpredictable ethical challenges in the biomedical context, our purpose in this study is to map the debate on the currently discussed ethical issues in digital dentistry through a systematic review of the literature. Four databases (Web of Science, Pub Med, Scopus, and Cinahl) were systematically searched. The study results highlight how most of the issues discussed by the retrieved literature are in line with the ethical challenges that digital technologies are introducing in healthcare such as privacy, anonymity, security, and informed consent. In addition, image forgery aimed at scientific misconduct and insurance fraud was frequently reported, together with issues of online professionalism and commercial interests sought through digital means.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Big data
A hadoop-based platform for patient classification and disease diagnosis in healthcare applications;Nowadays, the increasing number of patients accompanied with the emergence of new symptoms and diseases makes heath monitoring and assessment a complicated task for medical staff and hospitals. Indeed, the processing of big and heterogeneous data collected by biomedical sensors along with the need of patients’ classification and disease diagnosis become major challenges for several health-based sensing applications. Thus, the combination between remote sensing devices and the big data technologies have been proven as an efficient and low cost solution for healthcare applications. In this paper, we propose a robust big data analytics platform for real time patient monitoring and decision making to help both hospital and medical staff. The proposed platform relies on big data technologies and data analysis techniques and consists of four layers: real time patient monitoring, real time decision and data storage, patient classification and disease diagnosis, and data retrieval and visualization. To evaluate the performance of our platform, we implemented our platform based on the Hadoop ecosystem and we applied the proposed algorithms over real health data. The obtained results show the effectiveness of our platform in terms of efficiently performing patient classification and disease diagnosis in healthcare applications.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Association mining rules
An autonomous alarm system for personal safety assurance of intimate partner violence survivors based on passive continuous monitoring through biosensor;Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) dramatically compromises the free and complete development of many women around the world, therefore leading to social asymmetry regarding the right to personal safety. In many cases, a woman who has reported her partner to police for gender-based violence needs to ensure her protection (either before the trial of the aggressor or after their freedom). Thus, it would be ideal if autonomous alarm systems could be developed in order to call the police if necessary. Up to now, many proposals have been presented in this regard, including solutions based on Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) but, unfortunately, these approaches usually rely on the active participation of the victims (survivors), who have to turn the system on by themselves if needed. Therefore, in order to overcome such limitations, in this work, a passive continuous monitoring system is proposed which uses biosensors attached to the survivor as well as machine learning techniques to infer if an abnormal situation related to gender-based violence is taking place, activating in this case an alarm. The monitoring structure of the system supervises a great deal of bio-signals according to the current status of technology of wearables and biomedical devices. The presented biosensors-based surveillance solution can also be manually disconnected for 30/60/90 min (on demand) in order to avoid false positives when a woman is, for example, practicing sports or carrying out other inoffensive activities that could incorrectly activate the alarm.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Information and communication technologies
Graph theory: A comprehensive survey about graph theory applications in computer science and social networks;Graph theory (GT) concepts are potentially applicable in the field of computer science (CS) for many purposes. The unique applications of GT in the CS field such as clustering of web documents, cryptography, and analyzing an algorithm’s execution, among others, are promising applications. Furthermore, GT concepts can be employed to electronic circuit simplifications and analysis. Recently, graphs have been extensively used in social networks (SNs) for many purposes related to modelling and analysis of the SN structures, SN operation modelling, SN user analysis, and many other related aspects. Considering the widespread applications of GT in SNs, this article comprehensively summarizes GT use in the SNs. The goal of this survey paper is twofold. First, we briefly discuss the potential applications of GT in the CS field along with practical examples. Second, we explain the GT uses in the SNs with sufficient concepts and examples to demonstrate the significance of graphs in SN modeling and analysis.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Clustering
A privacy preserving cloud-based K-NN search scheme with lightweight user loads;With the growing popularity of cloud computing, it is convenient for data owners to outsource their data to a cloud server. By utilizing the massive storage and computational resources in cloud, data owners can also provide a platform for users to make query requests. However, due to the privacy concerns, sensitive data should be encrypted before outsourcing. In this work, a novel privacy preserving K-nearest neighbor (K-NN) search scheme over the encrypted outsourced cloud dataset is proposed. The problem is about letting the cloud server find K nearest points with respect to an encrypted query on the encrypted dataset, which was outsourced by data owners, and return the searched results to the querying user. Comparing with other existing methods, our approach leverages the resources of the cloud more by shifting most of the required computational loads, from data owners and query users, to the cloud server. In addition, there is no need for data owners to share their secret key with others. In a nutshell, in the proposed scheme, data points and user queries are encrypted attribute-wise and the entire search algorithm is performed in the encrypted domain;
Smart Health Monitoring System using IOT and Machine Learning Techniques;Coronary illness is that the principle purpose for death around the world. Human services field contains a tremendous measure of information, for handling those information certain methods are utilized. Handling or processing is one in all methods regularly utilized. This strategy predicts the emerging potential outcomes of cardiovascular ailment. The results of this strategy are to foresee the previous cardiovascular malady. The task manages IOT using sensor (pulse sensor to watch pulse) with Arduino and furthermore the outcome can be checked in sequential screen. With the use of IFTTT the readings of sensor are perused in google sheet which is then changed over into csv go looking like data. The datasets utilized are grouped as far as therapeutic parameters which are additionally utilized for preparing and testing the information. This strategy assesses those parameters utilizing information preparing order method. With the work of AI calculations and classification. Initially, the dataset is dissected, watched and screened, at that point the obtained information is handled in python programming utilizing Machine Learning Algorithm to be specific Decision Tree Algorithm and Random backwoods classifier Algorithm. SVM (Support vector machine) shows the higher outcome as far as exactness for identifying heart illness. Henceforth the proposed framework is demonstrated to be solid one for foreseeing prior heart disease. The proposed hardware as well as software system helps patient to predict heart disease in early stages. It will be helpful for mass screening system in villages where hospital facilties are not available, i.e., rural areas.  2020 IEEE.;Health Care System
TreC platform. An integrated and evolving care model for patients’ empowerment and data repository;Introduction: Health care has been deeply revolutionized by the new wave of information and communication technology (ICT) development, particularly related to the electronic/personal health record (PHR). The present paper describes the original design and implementation approach followed in the Trentino Province (Italy) to promote an Integrated Care Model for patients’ empowerment and data repository, by means of an evolving Personal Health Record - PHR platform, named TreC (Trentino Citizens Clinical Record). Materials and Methods: The TreC Platform is conceived as a communication hub among different stakeholders. The core assumption of the TreC platform strategy is to consider the citizen/patient as main manager and owner of both his/her own health and his/her contacts with the health care systems. Results: Over the years, the TreC platform has represented the core pillar in the digitalization process promoted at Province level. This has been strategically embedded in the multi-faceted e-government strategy endorsed by the Province of Trento. So far (October 2018), more than 89,000 citizens within the Province of Trento are using TreC platform as a way to communicate with the health care system and access their own personal health records. Conclusions: The experience gained through the TreC platform implementation and its results are promising, supporting the idea that a PHR platform can represent a key driving factor in improving health care quality and efficiency, both from a patient and a health care staff perspective.  2019;Patient empowerment
Human Activity Recognition Using Inertial;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097643995&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.3037715&partnerID=40&md5=20fc7ed5692197e6eeee081783a0d425;In the last decade, Human Activity Recognition (HAR) has become a vibrant research area, especially due to the spread of electronic devices such as smartphones, smartwatches and video cameras present in our daily lives. In addition, the advance of deep learning and other machine learning algorithms has allowed researchers to use HAR in various domains including sports, health and well-being applications. For example, HAR is considered as one of the most promising assistive technology tools to support elderly's daily life by monitoring their cognitive and physical function through daily activities. This survey focuses on critical role of machine learning in developing HAR applications based on inertial sensors in conjunction with physiological and environmental sensors.  2013 IEEE.;accelerometer;
A simple framework of smart geriatric nursing considering health big data and user profile;The National Bureau of Statistics of China shows that the population over 65 years old in China exceeds 166 million accounting for 11.93% of the total population by the end of 2018. The importance and severity of taking care of the elderly are becoming increasingly prominent. High-quality and meticulous care for the daily life of the elderly needs helpful and advanced sciences and technologies. Smart geriatric nursing is a must. Basing on the professional knowledge of geriatric nursing, this paper proposes a framework of smart geriatric nursing which consists of three aspects of smart nursing: smart geriatric nursing in physical health using biosensor and advanced devices, smart geriatric nursing in mental health based on user profile, and smart geriatric nursing for daily life based on big data in health. The deployment of the proposed method relies on the technologies of the Internet of Things (IoT), user profile system, big data, and many other advanced information technologies. The framework of methods can provide a useful reference for the systematic technical scheme of smart geriatric nursing in an aging society. Copyright  2020 Shijie Li and Yongchuan Tang. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.;
Blockchain Consensus Mechanisms and Their Applications in IoT: A Literature Survey;With the advance of blockchain technology, blockchain has been used in many fields. As a point-to-point network with characteristics of traceability, decentralization, de-trust and so on, blockchain technology is suitable for deploying Internet of Things networks. It provides the opportunity for the prosperity of IoT networks. As a key component of blockchain, blockchain consensus mechanism is worth studying. In this paper, we systematically survey blockchain consensus mechanisms from the perspective of Internet of Things networks requirements. We first introduce the requirements of consensus mechanisms in IoT networks to help researchers understand the connection of blockchain consensus mechanisms and IoT. Then we divide the blockchain consensus mechanism into four categories, namely, consensus mechanisms for security, consensus mechanisms for scalability, consensus mechanisms for energy saving, and consensus mechanisms for performance improvement. We further analyze those blockchain consensus mechanisms and point out the potential direction of blockchain consensus designs based on our observation. The target of this paper is to provide insights for researchers into the future development of blockchain consensus mechanisms in IoT and encourage more efforts in this field.  2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Blockchain
Privacy protection for fog computing and the internet of things data based on blockchain;With the development of the Internet of Things (IoT) field, more and more data are generated by IoT devices and transferred over the network. However, a large amount of IoT data is sensitive, and the leakage of such data is a privacy breach. The security of sensitive IoT data is a big issue, as the data is shared over an insecure network channel. Current solutions include symmetric encryption and access controls to secure the data transfer, but they have some drawbacks such as a single point of failure. Blockchain is a promising distributed ledger technology that can prevent the malicious tampering of data, offering reliable data storage. This paper proposes a distributed access control system based on blockchain technology to secure IoT data. The proposed mechanism is based on fog computing and the concept of the alliance chain. This method uses mixed linear and nonlinear spatiotemporal chaotic systems (MLNCML) and the least significant bit (LSB) to encrypt the IoT data on an edge node and then upload the encrypted data to the cloud. The proposed mechanism can solve the problem of a single point of failure of access control by providing the dynamic and fine-grained access control for IoT data. The experimental results of this method demonstrated that it can protect the privacy of IoT data efficiently.  2020, The Author(s).;Access control
Influence of internet of things (IoT) in association of data mining towards the development smart cities-A review analysis;The modern wireless sensor network is focused on integrating the emerging technology of IoT with the real world for enhanced data processing to improve automation and communication more smartly and safely. In the present industrial upgradation with IoT application greatly proved its positive influences on the operation and management phases along with progressive adoption of cloud computing and big data analytics. In Industry, smart monitoring and distributed control of entire architecture are hold up with the renovated technology of the Internet of Things (IoT). It lies on the top layer of the wireless communication network to afford enhanced connectivity among smart wireless or wired sensor with the embedded modern controller to the cloud server. In IoT application, real-time data acquisition is done securely and transmitted to the data analytics services to identify any catastrophic situation existence. It is reliable and moved industrial automation to the next step evolution of formulating to make proactive decisions to decide and react to the industrial variation constraints. Though modernization has shifted to analog to the digital generation, it is interoperable with available protocols and data standardizations in industrial sectors. Hence this paper enumerates the detailed configurations and features of IoT application involved in the modern communication platform towards the development of smart cities by incorporating data mining using AI (Artificial Intelligence). Further, the trending overview of Industrial IoT application in risk-based environments with complete knowledge-based architecture with incorporated wireless technology and protocols are outlined.  2020 School of Science, IHU. All rights reserved.;Industrial IoT application
BlockEdge: Blockchain-Edge Framework for Industrial IoT Networks;Industry 4.0 encompasses a promise of a new industrial revolution in terms of providing secure, intelligent, autonomous and self-adaptive industrial IoT (IIoT) networks. Key industrial applications and systems will be significantly more complex due to the involvement of the vast number of different devices and diverse nature of various stakeholders and service providers. These complex industrial processes, services and applications also have strict requirements in terms of performance - latency in particular - and resource-efficiency, together with high standards for security and trust. In this context, Blockchain and Edge Computing emerge as prominent technologies to address the mentioned essential requirements and to further strengthen the rise of the new era of digitization. The Edge computing paradigm ensures low latency services for IIoT applications while optimizing the network usage, whereas Blockchain provides a decentralized way for ensuring data integrity, trust and security. In this paper, we propose a 'BlockEdge' framework that combines these two enabling technologies to address some of the critical issues faced by the current IIoT networks. We verify the feasibility of our approach by evaluating the performance and resource-efficiency of BlockEdge in terms of latency, power consumption and network usage, through simulations against non-Blockchain solution.  2013 IEEE.;Blockchain
A Consent Model for Blockchain-Based Health Data Sharing Platforms;In modern healthcare systems, the ability to share electronic health records is crucial for providing quality care and for enabling a larger spectrum of health services. Health data sharing is dependent on obtaining individual consent which, in turn, is hindered by a lack of resources. To this extent, blockchain-based platforms facilitate data sharing by creating a trusted distributed network of users. These users are enabled to share their data without depending on the time and resources of specific actors (such as the health services). In blockchain-based platforms, data governance mechanisms become very important due to the need to specify and monitor data sharing and data use conditions. In this article, we present a blockchain-based data-sharing consent model for access control over individual health data. We use smart contracts to dynamically represent the individual's consent over health data and to enable data requesters to search and access those data. The dynamic consent model extends to two ontologies: the Data Use Ontology (DUO) which models the individual consent of users and the Automatable Discovery and Access Matrix (ADA-M), which describes queries from data requesters. We deploy the model on Ethereum blockchain and evaluate different data sharing scenarios. The contribution of this article consists of the creation of an individual consent model for health data sharing platforms. Such a model guarantees that individual consent is respected and that all the participants in the data sharing platform are accountable. The evaluation of our solution indicates that such a data sharing model provides a flexible decision-making approach over data usage by data requesters. Our experimental evaluation shows that the proposed model is efficient and adapts to personalized access control policies in different data-sharing scenarios.  2013 IEEE.;Blockchain
Finding NEEMO: Towards organizing smart digital solutions in orthopaedic trauma surgery;There are many digital solutions which assist the orthopaedic trauma surgeon. This already broad field is rapidly expanding, making a complete overview of the existing solutions difficult. The AO Foundation has established a task force to address the need for an overview of digital solutions in the field of orthopaedic trauma surgery. Areas of new technology which will help the surgeon gain a greater understanding of these possible solutions are reviewed. We propose a categorization of the current needs in orthopaedic trauma surgery matched with available or potential digital solutions, and provide a narrative overview of this broad topic, including the needs, solutions and basic rules to ensure adequate use in orthopaedic trauma surgery. We seek to make this field more accessible, allowing for technological solutions to be clearly matched to trauma surgeons' needs.  2020 The author(s).;Digital
A parallelization based data management framework for pervasive iot applications;Pervasive Internet of Things (IoT) is a research paradigm that has attracted considerable attention nowadays. The main aim of pervasive IoT is that in the future, the everyday objects (devices) would be accessible, sensed, and interconnected inside the global structure of the Internet. But in most of the pervasive IoT applications, the resources of an IoT device such as storage, processing, and energy are limited;
Electrocardiogram: Acquisition and analysis for biological investigations and health monitoring;Electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) was introduced since 1893 by Einthoven, and it has been used for decades in clinical settings for vital sign monitoring as well as cardiac assessment. The ECG signal with its unique characteristic waves of P waves, QRS complexes, and T waves holds important information about the functionalities of the heart. In recent years, advances in electronics and telecommunications have paved the way for out-of-clinic ECG acquisition and monitoring. The rise of advanced data science techniques, such as machine learning, has further opened doors for distanced, home-based, and automated diagnoses. In parallel, micro- and nanotechnology has enabled significant strides in biological investigations using small animal models, such as zebrafish and mouse, uncovering underlying mechanisms of numerous biological processes. In this chapter, we first introduce the basics of electrocardiogram and the methods for acquisition;
Automatic Daily Activity Schedule Planning for Simulating Smart House with Elderly People Living Alone;A simulation tool that supports developers to build scenarios automatically in multiple simulation platforms is proposed. As an essential part of this simulator, this study proposed an activity schedule generator to mimic the daily life of elderly people living alone. This generator outperforms existing methods of activity schedule planning in three aspects: 1) it is adaptive to the layout of a simulated smart house;
Security and Privacy of mHealth Applications: A Scoping Review;While digital health or mHealth applications (apps) have become accessible resources for the support of personal health, the privacy and security of users' data have been the subject of concern and controversy. As large numbers of mHealth apps are created and are increasingly widely used by people with various health conditions, it is crucial to have clear and valid methods for evaluating the data practices within them. Recent regulatory initiatives such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) have had the effect of raising awareness and establishing a minimal set of expectations. However, they do not in themselves address the issue of the development of systems which meet privacy and security requirements. There is a growing body of research on evaluation techniques and frameworks to support the assessment of the privacy and security of health apps, and guidelines to support their design. However, it can be challenging to navigate this space and choose appropriate techniques for a given context. Addressing this issue, this paper examines the recent literature on security and privacy of m-Health applications, using a scoping review methodology. It analyses data security and privacy evaluation techniques and frameworks that have been proposed for mHealth applications, as well as relevant research-based design recommendations. This work consolidates recent research on the topic to support researchers, app designers, end users, and healthcare professionals in designing, evaluating, recommending and adopting mHealth applications.  2013 IEEE.;data privacy
Mutual coexistence in WBANs: Impact of modulation schemes of the IEEE 802.15.6 standard;Due to the mobility of subjects carrying wireless Body Area Networks (WBANs), a BAN may be found in an environment that contains other adjacent BANs, which may influence its proper functioning. The purpose of this paper is to study the effect of interference between adjacent BANs on the performance of a reference BAN in terms of packet loss rate (PLR), while considering the following four parameters: the distance separating adjacent BANs, the number of nodes and traffic payload of an interferer BAN, and the transmission data rate. The study is conducted for the two modulation schemes proposed by the IEEE 802.15.6 standard in the 2.4 GHz narrow band, which are: Differential Binary Phase Shift Keying (DBPSK) modulation and Differential Quadrature Phase Shift Keying (DQPSK) modulation. Simulation results have shown that the adoption of a lower-order modulation such as DBPSK can reduce the effect of interference among adjacent BANs.  2020 Science and Information Organization.;Body area network (BAN)
An HL7-Based Middleware for Exchanging Data and Enabling Interoperability in Healthcare Applications;Data interoperability in the health sector is a current and important topic which has been the object of study in several research. Interoperability provides improved patient care quality, assists professionals in decision-making and enables healthcare organizations to remain competitive on the market. This work presents a cloud middleware based on the HL7 standard capable of encoding, storing, interoperating and integrating Electronic Health Record (EHR) data between different applications. Based on HL7 clinical document architecture, the software architecture of the proposed middleware is specified, a set of rules that maps relational data schemas to HL7 messages is described, and a tool that supports interoperability and integration of EHR data among health institutions is detailed. To validate the proposed solution, we used a real scenario of three health institutions located in the northern region of Brazil and results showed that all messages were encoded and interoperated among the health facilities.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.;Component
A collaborative edge-cloud internet of things based framework for securing the indian healthcare system;Today, 73 years after the independence and twenty years after the turn of the century, “Health for All” which should have been accomplished by now, remains a far-fetched and an elu-sive dream. Instead, the people of India are bequeathed a triple burden of disease: sustaining the weight of transmittable infections, expanding burden of nontransferable illnesses, and a healthcare system not efficient enough to handle them both. At present, India is home to one-third of the poor population around the world. After a high population growth rate, unregulated and inefficient healthcare is the major cause for this abjection and poverty. The global position of India vis-à-vis the health indicators like Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), Crude Birth Rate (CBR), Crude Death Rate (CDR) and life expectancy is shocking, shameful and on a downward trend. The objective of this paper was to identify the major issues in the Indian healthcare system and offer Internet of Things (IoT) based solutions. The underdevelopment of health and health services in India is brought about by the same determinants that cause underdevelopment in the first place. This paper dis-cusses these causes and major issues responsible for the dilapidated state of Indian healthcare and offers IoT based solutions for dealing with each of these issues. Moreover, a collaborative edge/cloud IoT based framework has been proposed for remedying the Indian healthcare. The presented solutions could be used for making healthcare and thereby, health, a reality for all.  2020 Bentham Science Publishers.;Body Area Networks (BANs)
Systematic review on security and privacy requirements in edge computing: State of the art and future research opportunities;Edge computing is a promising paradigm that enhances the capabilities of cloud computing. In order to continue patronizing the computing services, it is essential to conserve a good atmosphere free from all kinds of security and privacy breaches. The security and privacy issues associated with the edge computing environment have narrowed the overall acceptance of the technology as a reliable paradigm. Many researchers have reviewed security and privacy issues in edge computing, but not all have fully investigated the security and privacy requirements. Security and privacy requirements are the objectives that indicate the capabilities as well as functions a system performs in eliminating certain security and privacy vulnerabilities. The paper aims to substantially review the security and privacy requirements of the edge computing and the various technological methods employed by the techniques used in curbing the threats, with the aim of helping future researchers in identifying research opportunities. This paper investigate the current studies and highlights the following: (1) the classification of security and privacy requirements in edge computing, (2) the state of the art techniques deployed in curbing the security and privacy threats, (3) the trends of technological methods employed by the techniques, (4) the metrics used for evaluating the performance of the techniques, (5) the taxonomy of attacks affecting the edge network, and the corresponding technological trend employed in mitigating the attacks, and, (6) research opportunities for future researchers in the area of edge computing security and privacy.  2013 IEEE.;Edge computing
A Critical Review of Concepts; and Pitfalls of Blockchain Technology Using Concept Map;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084129309&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.2985647&partnerID=40&md5=87c3cea7da5eba471c1fd0f59c90eedc;Blockchain is relatively a new area of research. However, a surge of research studies on the blockchain has taken place in recent years. These research studies have mostly focused on designing and developing conceptual frameworks to build more reliable, transparent and efficient digital systems. While blockchain brings a wide variety of benefits, it also imposes certain challenges. Therefore, the objective of this research is to understand the properties of blockchain, its current uses, observed benefits and pitfalls to provide a balanced understanding of blockchain. A systematic literature review approach was adopted in this paper in order to attain the objective. A total of 51 articles were selected and reviewed. As outcomes, this research provides a summary of the state-of-the-art research studies conducted in the area of blockchain. Furthermore, we develop a set of concept maps aiming to provide in-depth knowledge on blockchain technology for its efficient and effective usage in the development of future technological solutions.  2020 IEEE.;Blockchain;
Disruptive emerging technologies: Change in service operating model;The service operation is quite important to run a business and deliver customer service up to the expectation. This paper is looking at IT services and the use of artificial intelligence (AI) with machine learning (ML). The authors figured out that the service operation model is disturbed by the use of AI and ML. This paper was looking at the possible extent of disruption in specific to IT service but it is quite relevant to other service industries as well. The service operating model getting changed by disruptive technology (AI and ML) which replace the human drastically. The service operating model will be changed to an AI-led human supervised model. IT services and even service platforms will be changed by embedding AI and ML in the platform. IT capital replaces humans to mitigate skill demand in developed economies. Our study cautioning service providers and even enterprises to get prepared for this drastic disruption to gain early competitiveness in the marketplace. AI and ML together with an automation engine or platform is the future for the service industry and industry to get prepared for this mainstream alignment quickly.  2020, World Academy of Research in Science and Engineering. All rights reserved.;Artificial intelligence
Role and Challenges of Unstructured Big Data in Healthcare;Unprecedented growth in the volume of unstructured healthcare data has immense potential in valuable insight extraction, improved healthcare services, quality patient care, and secure data management. However, technological advancements are required to achieve the potential benefits from unstructured data in healthcare according to the growth rate. The heterogeneity, diversity of sources, quality of data and various representations of unstructured data in healthcare increases the number of challenges as compared to structured data. This systematic review of the literature identifies the challenges and problems of data-driven healthcare due to the unstructured nature of data. The systematic review was carried out using five major scientific databases: ACM, Springer, ScienceDirect, PubMed, and IEEE Xplore. The inclusion of articles in review at the initial stage was based on English language and publication date from 2010 to 2018. A total of 103 articles were selected according to the inclusion criteria. Based on the review, various types of healthcare unstructured data have been discussed from different domains of healthcare. Also, potential challenges associated with unstructured big data have been identified in healthcare for future research directions in the technological advancement of healthcare services and quality patient care.  2020, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.;Big data
Multiple imputation for biomedical data using monte carlo dropout autoencoders;Due to complex experimental settings, missing values are common in biomedical data. To handle this issue, many methods have been proposed, from ignoring incomplete instances to various data imputation approaches. With the recent rise of deep neural networks, the field of missing data imputation has oriented towards modelling of the data distribution. This paper presents an approach based on Monte Carlo dropout within (Variational) Autoencoders which offers not only very good adaptation to the distribution of the data but also allows generation of new data, adapted to each specific instance. The evaluation shows that the imputation error and predictive similarity can be improved with the proposed approach.  2019 IEEE.;Data preprocessing
Review of cybersecurity research topics;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078863862&doi=10.1109%2fSOCA.2019.00031&partnerID=40&md5=210efeabafad36cd05d56bc2d86bd4b9;As cybersecurity is a growing field of science, there is not complete agreement across the scope of cybersecurity research topics. This paper proposes a grouping and classifications of cybersecurity researches to introduce an easily referenceable taxonomy of the cybersecurity research topics. A literature survey was conducted to collect published literature review papers about various cybersecurity researches during the past five years periods. Taxonomic analysis of 99 selected papers, which were grouped based on research topic similarities, produced sets of research categories. It categorized the cybersecurity research topics into 8 areas: (1) Applied cybersecurity, (2) Cybersecurity data science, (3) Cybersecurity education and training, (4) Cybersecurity incidents, (5) Cybersecurity management and policy, (6) Cybersecurity technology, (7) Human and social cybersecurity and (8) Theories in cybersecurity. Although cybersecurity grew out of the computer science field, this paper argues that its interdisciplinary nature (not only technical computer security, but also data, system/technology, and human/social) can attract researcher from various disciplines, such as management, policy, psychology, and so on, to contribute to cybersecurity advancement.  2019 IEEE.;Cybersecurity;
Brain MR Imaging Tumor Detection Using Monogenic Signal Analysis-Based Invariant Texture Descriptors;Brain tumor is considered as a fatal disease with low survival rate and has the highest cost of care per patient. This article proposes a computer-assisted system for the recognition of brain tumor image through magnetic resonance imaging based on the monogenic signal analysis. From different monogenic components, textural descriptors are obtained using completed local binary pattern and gray-level co-occurrence matrix. In the pre-processing step, various filtering for noise removal and contrast enhancement techniques are implemented. Local phase, energy and orientation components originated from the monogenic signal analysis method are used for textural feature extraction. Fisher score-based filter approach for feature selection is then employed to derive the discriminating feature set. Finally, the acquired optimal feature set is classified using the support vector machine classifier. Two benchmark MR image datasets, e-health laboratory and Harvard medical laboratory, have been used to validate the system performance. Overall detection accuracy obtained was above 99%. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach and the potential to assist the medical experts in enhancing the detection rate. Furthermore, the presented approach delivers superior performance in brain tumor image recognition as compared to existing techniques.  2019, King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals.;Brain tumor detection
Noninvasive Identification of Hypotension Using Convolutional-Deconvolutional Networks;High-frequency identification of a patient's hypotensive state allows for early notification of adverse events and long-term trends. Risks of complications such as heart attack, acute kidney injury, and mortality increase with duration of hypotension during surgery, and a hypotensive state can affect the appropriate medication choices and dosages for congestive heart failure patients. Current methods for identifying hypotension are based on blood pressure cuff measurements, which are low-frequency and must be manually collected, or catheterized blood pressure sensors, which are invasive, painful, and not necessarily usable for the youngest and smallest neonatal patients.This paper explores the potential of replacing the high-frequency hypotensive state produced by the invasive arterial catheter with a high-frequency projection from a fusion of multiple noninvasive sensors. These noninvasive sensors are available for a large majority of hospital patients, and have a lower risk of adverse effects ranging from patient discomfort to site infection. In addition, using multiple sensor inputs and a robust model allows for higher-reliability identification than single-sensor architectures.Our results demonstrate that by using a single flexible convolutional-deconvolutional neural network architecture, a patient's hypotensive state may be reconstructed from any combination of the input sensor channels, with fidelity increasing in the number of available inputs.  2019 IEEE.;
A Roadmap for automatic surgical site infection detection and evaluation using user-generated incision images;Background: Emerging technologies such as smartphones and wearable sensors have enabled the paradigm shift to new patient-centered healthcare, together with recent mobile health (mHealth) app development. One such promising healthcare app is incision monitoring based on patient-Taken incision images. In this review, challenges and potential solution strategies are investigated for surgical site infection (SSI) detection and evaluation using surgical site images taken at home. Methods: Potential image quality issues, feature extraction, and surgical site image analysis challenges are discussed. Recent image analysis and machine learning solutions are reviewed to extract meaningful representations as image markers for incision monitoring. Discussions on opportunities and challenges of applying these methods to derive accurate SSI prediction are provided. Conclusions: Interactive image acquisition as well as customized image analysis and machine learning methods for SSI monitoring will play critical roles in developing sustainable mHealth apps to achieve the expected outcomes of patient-Taken incision images for effective out-of-clinic patient-centered healthcare with substantially reduced cost.  Ziyu Jiang et al., 2019;
Virtual private ledgers: Embedding private distributed ledgers over a public blockchain by cryptography;Distributed ledgers allow us to replicate databases of records across mutually untrusted parties. The best known example of distributed ledger is perhaps the Bitcoin blockchain, which maintains a consistent history of financial transactions organized as a hashed chain of blocks. Distributed ledgers can be public, i.e., accessible by everyone, or private, i.e., accessible only by a given consortium of parties. In this paper, we explore the technological possibilities of applying Identity-Based Encryption and Attribute-Based Encryption to distributed ledgers. We introduce the novel concept of Virtual Private Ledger. A Virtual Private Ledger is a private distributed ledger embedded in a public cryptocurrency ledger by means of cryptography. A Virtual Private Ledger provides for the same confidentiality and integrity of a private distributed ledger, but without its high operational costs. In particular, nodes that maintain the ledger do not have to be always online to trust the order and the integrity of the records. We analytically show that Virtual Private Ledgers can be implemented over many existing cryptocurrency ledgers like Ethereum, EOS.IO, IOTA, XRP. Different cryptocurrencies lead to different trade-offs between the Virtual Private Ledger max record size, cost, validation time, and max consortium members.  2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Blockchain
Fetal Birth Weight Estimation in High-Risk Pregnancies Through Machine Learning Techniques;The low weight of fetus at birth is considered one of the most critical problems in pregnancy care, affecting the newborn's health and leading it to death in more severe cases. This condition is responsible for the high infant mortality rates worldwide. In health, artificial intelligence techniques, especially those based on machine learning (ML), can early predict problems related to the fetus' health state during entire gestation, including at birth. Hence, this paper proposes an analysis of several ML techniques capable of predicting whether the fetus will born small for its gestational age. The results show that the hybrid model, named bagged tree, achieved excellent results concerning accuracy and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, to know, 0.849 and 0.636, respectively. The importance of the early diagnosis of problems related to fetal development relies on the possibility of an increase in the gestation days through timely intervention. Such intervention would allow an improvement in fetal weight at birth, associated with a decrease in neonatal morbidity and mortality.  2019 IEEE.;
A wearable mobile exergaming system for activity recognition and relaxation awareness;An exergaming implementation is used for human activity recognition and to encourage calmness. We create a mobile video game to record and analyze the user's physical output. Commercial wearable sensors are incorporated into a mobile gaming interface to provide in-game controls and quantified bio-metrics of the user's meditation level and arm motion. A wearable accelerometer is used to control the player's ship, while a vibrating motor provides feedback from the game. An electroencephalographic (EEG) sensor is used to monitor the user's meditation state for replenishing the ship's shield. An activity recognition algorithm is used to identify the five specific exercise motions the player performs to control the game.  2019 IEEE.;Activity recognition
A Framework to Generate Actionable Information for Mobile Based Information System That Empowers Users to Self-Manage Type 2 Diabetes;Very high mobile phone adoption makes it possible to use mobile phones to empower patients with type 2 diabetes to self-manage their diabetic condition. The mobile application allows patients to make informed choices by providing appropriate information in the right context. We present a framework that can generate actionable information for such a mobile application and the result of evaluation of the generated actionable information provided by a group of 15 patients and 8 health care providers. We have received positive feedbacks from patients and health care provider after carrying out the evaluation of the application.  2019 IEEE.;E-health
Architecture for Mobile Based Information System That Empowers Users to Self-Manage Type 2 Diabetes;Very high adoption of mobile phones enables the possibility of using mobile phones to empower type 2 diabetes patients to self-manage their diabetic condition by providing timely information in right context through the mobile application, thus facilitating them to make informed decisions. Having identified the lack of such information is badly affecting type 2 patients we embarked on a project to develop a mobile-based information system. We have developed an architecture for a mobile application that can help in empowering users to self-manage type 2 diabetes. We have received positive feedbacks from patients and health care provider after carrying out the evaluation of the application.  2019 IEEE.;E-health
Development of electronic medical records for clinical and research purposes: The breast cancer module using an implementation framework in a middle income country- Malaysia;Background: Advances in medical domain has led to an increase of clinical data production which offers enhancement opportunities for clinical research sector. In this paper, we propose to expand the scope of Electronic Medical Records in the University Malaya Medical Center (UMMC) using different techniques in establishing interoperability functions between multiple clinical departments involving diagnosis, screening and treatment of breast cancer and building automatic systems for clinical audits as well as for potential data mining to enhance clinical breast cancer research in the future. Results: Quality Implementation Framework (QIF) was adopted to develop the breast cancer module as part of the in-house EMR system used at UMMC, called i-Pesakit. The completion of the i-Pesakit Breast Cancer Module requires management of clinical data electronically, integration of clinical data from multiple internal clinical departments towards setting up of a research focused patient data governance model. The 14 QIF steps were performed in four main phases involved in this study which are (i) initial considerations regarding host setting, (ii) creating structure for implementation, (iii) ongoing structure once implementation begins, and (iv) improving future applications. The architectural framework of the module incorporates both clinical and research needs that comply to the Personal Data Protection Act. Conclusion: The completion of the UMMC i-Pesakit Breast Cancer Module required populating EMR including management of clinical data access, establishing information technology and research focused governance model and integrating clinical data from multiple internal clinical departments. This multidisciplinary collaboration has enhanced the quality of data capture in clinical service, benefited hospital data monitoring, quality assurance, audit reporting and research data management, as well as a framework for implementing a responsive EMR for a clinical and research organization in a typical middle-income country setting. Future applications include establishing integration with external organization such as the National Registration Department for mortality data, reporting of institutional data for national cancer registry as well as data mining for clinical research. We believe that integration of multiple clinical visit data sources provides a more comprehensive, accurate and real-time update of clinical data to be used for epidemiological studies and audits.  2018 The Author(s).;Breast Cancer
Behind our words: Psychological paths underlying the un/supportive stance toward immigrants in social media;The present work is aimed at exploring the psychological paths underlying supportive and unsupportive social media stances toward immigrants. This investigation is based on a particular case of supportive communication on immigration promoted on line by a public figure (Morandi, a famous Italian singer). The used methodology integrated methods from data science and psychology, and it was based on a machine learning approach combined with a psycho-lexical analysis of online discussions. Results showed that from the words used by social media commenters can be extracted peculiar psychological processes behind supportive and unsupportive stance toward immigrant hosting. In particular, words were qualitatively grouped by defining the underlying value dimension, cognitive, emotional and also attributional processes for both supportive and unsupportive commenters. Thus this study allowed to find fine grained socio-psychological shades by overcoming the simple polarized online stances detection.  2018 IEEE.;Emotions
The transformative power of mobile medicine: Leveraging innovation;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85093479997&doi=10.1016%2fC2017-0-02352-2&partnerID=40&md5=34f062d05e4d733126a812dad413c774;The Transformative Power of Mobile Medicine: Leveraging Innovation, Seizing Opportunities, and Overcoming Obstacles of mHealth addresses the rapid advances taking place in mHealth and their impact on clinicians and patients. It provides guidance on reliable mobile health apps that are based on sound scientific evidence, while also offering advice on how to stay clear of junk science. The book explores the latest developments, including the value of blockchain, the emerging growth of remote sensors in chronic patient care, the potential use of Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant as patient bedside assistants, the use of Amazon’s IoT button, and much more. This book enables physicians and nurses to gain a deep understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of mobile health and helps them choose evidence-based mobile medicine tools to improve patient care.  2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Incorporating artificial intelligence into medical cyber physical systems: A survey;Medical Cyber Physical Systems (MCPSs) prescribe a platform in which patient health information is acquired by the emerging Internet of Things (IoT) sensors, pre-processed locally, and processed via advanced machine intelligence algorithms in the cloud. The emergence of MCPSs holds the promise to revolutionize remote patient healthcare monitoring, accelerate the development of new drugs or treatments, and improve the quality-of-life for patients who are suffering from various medical conditions among other various applications. The amount of raw medical data gathered through the IoT sensors in an MCPS provides a rich platform that artificial intelligence algorithms can use to provide decision support for either medical experts or patients. In this paper, we provide an overview of MCPSs and the data flow through these systems. This includes how raw physiological signals are converted into features and are used by machine intelligence algorithms, the types of algorithms available for the healthcare domain, how the data and the decision support output are presented to the end user, and how all of these steps are completed in a secure fashion to preserve the privacy of the users.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.;Cloud computing
Self-tracking technologies adoption and utilization: A literature analysis;Academic research on Quantified Self (QS) has grown rapidly in recent years in the field of Information Systems. QS intertwines studies on personal ICT, technology adoption, self-monitoring, mobile health, and wearable. However, there is currently no research that synthesizes all these ramifications to reveal the different theories and factors that have been most used to explore this phenomenon. This research presents a literature review and analysis of 75 articles focused on the adoption and utilization different types of QS technologies. The findings indicate a monolithic view on QS, which is commonly examined with the technological lens, thus neglecting also the health and social domains. In addition, future research should diversify the theories and methodological approaches used to study QS.  2019 Association for Information Systems. All rights reserved.;Adoption
Automated pterygium detection in anterior segment photographed images using deep convolutional neural network;This paper presents an automated detection of pterygium disease in anterior segmented photographed images. The five main steps are implemented as follows;
A Decade of Blockchain: Review of the Current Status; and Future Directions;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077444810&doi=10.15388%2fInformatica.2019.227&partnerID=40&md5=dbaac7201f555de18ee9d0ba17940f00;In this paper, we present the progress of blockchain technology from the advent of the original publication titled 'Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,' written by the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, until the current days. Historical background and a comprehensive overview of the blockchain technology are given. We provide an up-to-date comparison of the most popular blockchain platforms with particular emphasis given to consensus protocols. Additionally, we introduce a BlockLib, an extensively growing online library on blockchain platforms collected from the various sources and designed to enable contributions from the blockchain community. Main directions of the current blockchain research, facing challenges as well as the main fields of applications, are summarized. We also layout the possible future lines in the blockchain technology development.  2019-Vilnius University.;Bitcoin;
Security vulnerabilities and issues of traditional wireless sensors networks in IOT;From the past decade, Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) spread out significantly with the result of technological progress in hardware, software, and micro electro mechanical systems. With the enlargement of WSNs, great advances have been shaped in Internet-of-Things (IoT) by an ample variety of applications. IoT applications practiced in myriad phases include human life, ecological supervise, public wellbeing and medical behavior, smart shipping, traffic monitoring, smart cities, smart home applications, smart grid, and others. Mostly Internet of Things maintained with various sensing devices and technologies such as Sensors, GPS (Global positioning system), laser sensor, gas inductor, RFID (Radio-frequency identification devices), infrared sensor and many more, which collects large range features from the real world and send abstract feature objects which need to be monitored. Most of the devices are linked and interacted with more than one. The main idea behind IoT is to connect device-to-device, device-to-human, human-to-human. Development of IoT can make people live in a convenient way;
Digital Interventions for Mental Disorders: Key Features; and Potential for Artificial Intelligence Applications;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85074707862&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-32-9721-0_29&partnerID=40&md5=16179331f81c7dec861769be3da43979;Mental disorders are highly prevalent and often remain untreated. Many limitations of conventional face-to-face psychological interventions could potentially be overcome through Internet-based and mobile-based interventions (IMIs). This chapter introduces core features of IMIs, describes areas of application, presents evidence on the efficacy of IMIs as well as potential effect mechanisms, and delineates how Artificial Intelligence combined with IMIs may improve current practices in the prevention and treatment of mental disorders in adults. Meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials clearly show that therapist-guided IMIs can be highly effective for a broad range of mental health problems. Whether the effects of unguided IMIs are also clinically relevant, particularly under routine care conditions, is less clear. First studies on IMIs for the prevention of mental disorders have shown promising results. Despite limitations and challenges, IMIs are increasingly implemented into routine care worldwide. IMIs are also well suited for applications of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, which provides ample opportunities to improve the identification and treatment of mental disorders. Together with methodological innovations, these approaches may also deepen our understanding of how psychological interventions work, and why. Ethical and professional restraints as well as potential contraindications of IMIs, however, should also be considered. In sum, IMIs have a high potential for improving the prevention and treatment of mental health disorders across various indications, settings, and populations. Therefore, implementing IMIs into routine care as both adjunct and alternative to face-to-face treatment is highly desirable. Technological advancements may further enhance the variability and flexibility of IMIs, and thus even further increase their impact in people’s lives in the future.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019.;Artificial intelligence;
Data processing approaches for lung CT-image analysis under resource constraints;In this paper we consider the methods of the improvement the efficiency of lung tumor classification made by deep convolutional networks in conditions of limited resources. We propose two approaches of the efficiency improvenets. The first is the consideration of the specifics of the brightness distribution of CT images of lung cancer and preprocessing the data according to these specifics. Experiments with the inclusion of preprocessing proposed by this method showed an improvement in the classification efficiency on a small amount of computing resources. The second is the use of an improved network training method for the task of domain adaptation, which includes the integration of a specific loss function into the network architecture. That loss function aligns the latent feature space of the network trained on source large dataset of CT scans with the latent feature space of the target small dataset, where the network will be used for inference. The integration of this method has shown comparable results with the traditional fine-tuning method in a noticeably smaller amount of time and on the same hardware resources.  Copyright 2019 IADIS Press All rights reserved.;CT-Images
Distributed and scalable platform for collaborative analysis of massive time series data sets;The recent expansion of metrification on a daily basis has led to the production of massive quantities of data, which in many cases correspond to time series. To streamline the discovery and sharing of meaningful information within time series, a multitude of analysis software tools were developed. However, these tools lack appropriate mechanisms to handle massive time series data sets and large quantities of simultaneous requests, as well as suitable visual representations for annotated data. We propose a distributed, scalable, secure and high-performant architecture that allows a group of researchers to curate a mutual knowledge base deployed over a network and to annotate patterns while preventing data loss from overlapping contributions or unsanctioned changes. Analysts can share annotation projects with peers over a reactive web interface with a customizable workspace. Annotations can express meaning not only over a segment of time but also over a subset of the series that coexist in the same segment. In order to reduce visual clutter and improve readability, we propose a novel visual encoding where annotations are rendered as arcs traced only over the affected curves. The performance of the prototype under different architectural approaches was benchmarked. Copyright  2019 by SCITEPRESS – Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved;Annotation Systems
Bridging face and sound modalities through domain adaptation metric learning;Robust emotion recognition systems require extensive training by employing huge number of training samples with purpose of generating sophisticated models. Furthermore, research is mostly focused on facial expression recognition due, mainly to, the wide availability of related datasets. However, the existence of rich and publicly available datasets is not the case for other modalities like sound and so forth. In this work, a heterogeneous domain adaptation framework is introduced for bridging two inherently different domains (namely face and audio). The purpose is to perform affect recognition on the modality where only a small amount of data is available, leveraging large amounts of data from another modality.  2019 ESANN (i6doc.com). All rights reserved.;
Privacy Protection for Context-Aware Services: A Two-Layer Three-Party Game Model;In the era of context-aware services, users are enjoying remarkable services based on data collected from a multitude of users. However, in order to benefit from these services, users are enduring the risk of leaking private information. Game theory is a powerful method that is utilized to balance such tradeoff problems. The drawback is that most schemes consider the tradeoff problem from the aspect of the users, while the platform is the party that dominates the interaction in reality. There is also an oversight to formulate the interaction occurring between multiple users, as well as the mutual influence between any two parties involved, including the user, platform and adversary. In this paper, we propose a platform-centric two-layer three-party game model to protect the users’ privacy and provide quality of service. One layer focuses on the interactions among the multiple asymmetric users and the second layer considers the influence between any two of the three parties (user, platform, and adversary). We prove that the Nash Equilibrium exists in the proposed game and find the optimal strategy for the platform to provide quality service, while protecting private data, along with interactions with the adversary. Using real datasets, we present simulations to validate our theoretical analysis.  2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;
Predictive AI models for the personalized medicine;Innovative information systems which enable personalized medicine are presented. The designed decision support systems are expected to infer with an excellent level of accuracy the outcome of a therapeutic intervention through the analysis of biometric, genetic and environmental data. They are also capable to motivate their predictions according to a dynamic knowledge base, which is kept updated with new analysed cases. These systems can be used by researchers to identify useful correlations between biometric, genetic and environmental data with potential risks and benefits of certain therapeutic choices. They can also be used by the patients to choose the most appropriate therapeutic intervention according to their needs and expectations. In other words the presented decision support tools can realize the vision of the predictive, preventive, personalized and participatory (P4) medicine pursued by the systemic medicine.  2019 by SCITEPRESS - Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved.;Decision Support Systems
Semantic-Based Policy Composition for Privacy-Demanding Data Linkage;Record linkage can be used to support current and future health research across populations however such approaches give rise to many challenges related to patient privacy and confidentiality including inference attacks. To address this, we present a semantic-based policy framework where linkage privacy detects attribute associations that can lead to inference disclosure issues. To illustrate the effectiveness of the approach, we present a case study exploring health data combining spatial, ethnicity and language information from several major on-going projects occurring across Australia. Compared with classic access control models, the results show that our proposal outperforms other approaches with regards to effectiveness, reliability and subsequent data utility.  2018 IEEE.;association rules
Health data processing: Systemic approaches;Health Data Processing: Systemic Approaches focuses on the design of health information systems and touches on the main themes of medical informatics and public health. The book is written for health professionals in practice or training, and is especially useful for decision-makers or future decision-makers in the field of health information systems. Users will find sections on the question of reusing data for other purposes, protection of individual liberties that this data and technologies make more acute, and the irruption of large masses of genetic data and its related problems. This book develops the methodological and conceptual aspects related to these issues.  2018 ISTE Press Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.;
Death versus data science: Predicting end of life;Death is an inevitable part of life and while it cannot be delayed indefinitely it is possible to predict with some certainty when the health of a person is going to deteriorate. In this paper, we predict risk of mortality for patients from two large hospital systems in the Pacific Northwest. Using medical claims and electronic medical records (EMR) data we greatly improve prediction for risk of mortality and explore machine learning models with explanations for end of life predictions. The insights that are derived from the predictions can then be used to improve the quality of patient care towards the end of life. Copyright  2018, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.;
Economic incentive structure for blockchain network;Traditionally the transactions need middleman or the third-party to keep them trustworthy. However, the middleman itself may be the bottleneck of the trust model. When all the transactions are dealt with by the third parties, these third parties may not be trustworthy any more. Blockchain is proposed to eliminate the third parties of the transactions, which will make the trading parties of the transactions “face to face”. Though blockchain can provide the potential solution, it is still in rapid progress. At present, blockchain technology has been widely used to provide reliable transaction support. But the application mechanism is too complex and the demand for high concurrency is strong in some specific industries. This paper introduces a delegated parliament, which is selected from the unified node, whose role is to unite different blockchains and adjust the economic system of the network within a single chain, automatically form a decentralized marked financial market and an economy consensus law that complies with community laws and regulations. This structure is used in Unitary blockchain network, which provides the proof of its efficiency.  2018, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Blockchain
Efficacy of knowledge mining and machine learning techniques in healthcare industry;Knowledge mining is the process of discovering the knowledge from the larger database. As the size of the data is increasing enormously in the healthcare industry knowledge mining techniques are used to extract and mine the dataset to acquire new knowledge. Machine learning is a technique of training the system. In connection with artificial intelligence, statistics, and computer science, it is also known as statistical learning or predictive analytics. In recent years, application of machine learning and knowledge mining methods is been used everywhere in daily life. Healthcare system can cater prime diagnosis data of human healthcare details and reference to the doctors. Historical medical records afford other healthcare providers to access quickly and recognize the patients past and current health status. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is becoming one of the causes for leading deaths. An experiment is conducted to predict the presence and severity of the chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPDs) using knowledge mining and machine learning techniques. Logistic and multinominal regression has been implemented to predict the prevalence of the disease using attributes from various sources and structures.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018.;Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
Self-tracking data as digital traces of identity: A theoretical analysis of contextual factors of self-observation practices;Digital traces occur as a consequence of using digital devices or applications, but they can also be produced intentionally, as in the case of self-tracking activities. Self-tracking increases the amount of data that represents users' or communities' identity traces, and individuals, institutions, and companies are interested in analyzing these data, but few consider the framing conditions of the data collection, distribution, and evaluation. This article demonstrates how contextual factors influence self-observation data. Based on approaches of a sociology of quantification and a theoretical discussion of metadata in scientific research, it examines the individual, social, and technological contextual factors that influence the production, analysis, distribution, and interpretation of digital self-tracking data. The article develops systematization of the phenomenon of selftracking data.  2018 (Bernadette Kneidinger-Müller).;Digital traces
What if factories looked like forests? Redesigning the manufacturing industry 4.0 workplaces with an augmented reality inspired nature metaphor;In the Industry 4.0 environments, machines are becoming increasingly more complex, and tasks like machine configuration and maintenance, demand higher human expertise, thus operators have to be able to deal with such complex systems. In this paper we introduce an AR nature inspired metaphor - BioIoT- to communicate information about complex, real-time processes in an engaging, interactive and apparent manner. In addition, we present an Industry 4.0 use case scenario where the BioIoT concept can be applied. We emphasize the contributions of such concept in the future manufacturing industrial workplaces.;Augmented reality
Managing heterogeneous medical data: Learning from experiences in telemedicine;The Internet of Things is one of the most promising technical revolutions of our age. The idea of integrating sensors to common objects and linking to the Internet offers a wide range of new possibilities. However, establishing standard communication protocols, storing heterogeneous data and guaranteeing security to the transmitted information need to be studied. As a support, web services have been released to establish the way how web applications interchange information by using XML, JSON or other plain formats. In this paper, we describe a general Back-End solution to store heterogeneous data collected from different sources. We used the stack named “MEAN” to program web services, and JSON as the data model to interchange information. On this study, we show the advantage of using JSON and a NoSQL database to integrate different solutions developed in projects that involve the Internet of Things philosophy.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2017.;Health Informatics
Learning multifaceted latent activities from heterogeneous mobile data;Inferring abstract contexts and activities from heterogeneous data is vital to context-Aware ubiquitous applications but still remains one of the most challenging problems. Recent advances in Bayesian nonparametric machine learning, in particular the theory of topic models based on Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP), has provided an elegant solution towards these challenges. However, limited existing methods have addressed the problem of inferring latent multifaceted activities and contexts from heterogeneous data sources such as those collected from mobile devices. In this paper, we extend the original HDP to model heterogeneous data using a richer structure of the base measure being a product-space. The proposed model, called product-space HDP (PS-HDP), naturally handles the heterogeneous data from multiple sources and identify the unknown number of latent structures in a principle way. Although this framework is generic, our current work primarily focuses on inferring (latent) threefold activities of who-when-where simultaneously, which corresponds to inducing activities from data collected for identity, location and time. We demonstrate our model on synthetic data as well as on a real-world dataset-The StudentLife dataset. We report results and provide analysis on the discovered activities and patterns to demonstrate the merit of the model. We also quantitatively evaluate the performance of PS-HDP model using standard metrics including F1-score, NMI, RI, purity, and compare them with well-known existing baseline methods.  2016 IEEE.;Activity recognition
Please, No More GUIs!: A User Study;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84987958802&doi=10.1109%2fCOMPSAC.2016.1&partnerID=40&md5=37a455e028c1d7bf71061f1d581e0908;Usable encryption is a challenging task especially in hospital environments, where on the one hand legal regulations require to apply encryption technologies and on the other special usability requirements have to be fulfilled. A study has to be conducted to identify use cases and requirements and learn how to integrate the encryption technology Attribute-based Encryption in IT processes in a German hospital. A focus group with employees was conducted in order to understand the special characteristics of the hospital's IT environment and how end users interact with software and encryption. Based on the identified requirements an adaptive prototype was implemented and evaluated by applying the cognitive walkthrough.  2016 IEEE.;Adaptive Frontend;
Access and use: Improving digital multimedia consumer health information;This project enabled novel organisational insight into the comparative utility of a portfolio of consumer health information content, by measuring patterns of attrition (abandonment) in content use. The project used as a case study the event activity log of a fully automated digital information kiosk, located in a community health facility. Direct measurements of the duration of content use were derived from the user interface activity recorded in the kiosk log, thus avoiding issues in using other approaches to collecting this type of data, such as sampling and observer bias. The distribution patterns of 1,383 durations of observed abandonments of use for twenty-eight discrete modules of health information content were visualised using Kaplan-Meir survival plots. Clear patterns of abandonment of content use were exhibited. The method of analysis is cost-effective, scalable and provides deep insight into the utility of health promotion content. The impact on the content producers, platform operators and service users is to improve organisational learning and thus increase the confidence in stakeholders that the service is continuously delivering high quality health and wellbeing benefits.  2016 The authors and IOS Press.;Attrition
Towards supporting awareness for content curation: The case of food literacy and behavioural change;This paper presents a theoretical grounding and a conceptual proposal aimed at providing support in the initial stages of sustained behavioural change. We explore the role that learning analytics and/or open learner models can have in supporting life-long learners to enhance their food literacy through a more informed curation process of relevant-content. This approach grounds on a behavioural change perspective that identifies i) knowledge, ii) attitudes, and iii) self-efficacy as key factors that will directly and indirectly affect future decisions and agency of life-long learners concerning their own health. The paper offers some possible avenues to start organising efforts towards the use of learning analytics to enhance awareness in terms of: knowledge curation, knowledge sharing and knowledge certainty. The paper aims at triggering discussion about the type of data and presentation mechanisms that may help life-long learners set a stronger basis for behavioural change in the subsequent stages. Copyright  2016 for the individual papers by the papers' authors.;Behavioural change
Socio-technical systems on the move: Some insights for policy activity;Because of the advancements in Information Communication Technologies (ICTs), and notably the increased spreading of Web 2.0 Internet-based services and mobile computing, an increasingly information-rich environment is made available, where new types of Socio-Technical Systems (STS) can be established. Due to the pervasiveness of ICT, designing and developing Socio-Technical Systems is raising an increasing interest also from a policy point of view. They play a crucial role in the improvement of the so-called soft-infrastructures, a main asset for delivering social innovation. Raising the performance of such an infrastructure, in fact, turns out to be a major challenge to be addressed in order to meet EU requirements for smart growth. In this chapter, a concept of STS is suggested, and its ICT-enabled implications for policy activity are highlighted. As an example, the concept is used for designing a collaborative platform for health knowledge exchange at a regional level. & 2015, IGI Global, All rights reserved.;E-Health
Exploring implicit cognition: Learning; and social cognitive processes;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84946205432&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-4666-6599-6&partnerID=40&md5=77362e6609ea67150f2f333d4a31c524;While widely studied, the capacity of the human mind remains largely unexplored. As such, researchers are continually seeking ways to understand the brain, its function, and its impact on human behavior. Exploring Implicit Cognition: Learning, Memory, and Social Cognitive Processes explores research surrounding the ways in which an individual's unconscious is able to influence and impact that person's behavior without their awareness. Focusing on topics pertaining to social cognition and the unconscious process, this title is ideal for use by students, researchers, psychologists, and academicians interested in the latest insights into implicit cognition.  2015 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare During COVID-19 Pandemic—A South American Perspective;The shudders of the COVID-19 pandemic have projected newer challenges in the healthcare domain across the world. In South American scenario, severe issues and difficulties have been noticed in areas like patient consultations, remote monitoring, medical resources, healthcare personnel etc. This work is aimed at providing a holistic view to the digital healthcare during the times of COVID-19 pandemic in South America. It includes different initiatives like mobile apps, web-platforms and intelligent analyses toward early detection and overall healthcare management. In addition to discussing briefly the key issues toward extensive implementation of eHealth paradigms, this work also sheds light on some key aspects of Artificial Intelligence and the Internet of Things along their potential applications like clinical decision support systems and predictive risk modeling, especially in the direction of combating the emergent challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Copyright  2020 Chatterjee, Tesis, Cymberknop and Armentano.;artificial intelligence
Sustainable technology analysis of blockchain using generalized additive modeling;Blockchain is a secure distributed management technology for data. Until now, blockchain technology has been intensively developed in financial fields such as Bitcoin. As the blockchain technology develops, the application fields of blockchain are expected to further expand. We proposed a technology analysis method for sustainability of blockchain technology. We analyzed the patent documents related to blockchain for sustainable technology analysis. To carry out the technology analysis, we preprocessed the patent documents and built a structure data, document-term matrix. In general, most elements of this matrix are zeros, so it is very skewed. Due to the skewness, technology analysis by traditional methods of statistics has analytical difficulty. To overcome this problem, we proposed a technology analysis method based on generalized additive modeling. To show how our proposed method can be applied to practical fields, we collected and analyzed the patent documents of blockchain technology.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Blockchain technology
A framework for detecting and analyzing behavior changes of elderly people over time using learning techniques;A sensor-rich environment can be exploited for elder healthcare applications. In this work, our objective was to conduct a continuous and long-term analysis of elderly’s behavior for detecting changes. We indeed did not study snapshots of the behavior but, rather, analyzed the overall behavior evolution over long periods of time in order to detect anomalies. Therefore, we proposed a learning method and formalize a normal behavior pattern for elderly people related to her/his Activities of Daily Living (ADL). We also defined a temporal similarity score between activities that allows detecting behavior changes over time. During the periods of time when behavior changes occurred, we then focused on each activity to identify anomalies. Finally, when a behavior change occurred, it was also necessary to help caregivers and/or family members understand the possible pathology detected in order for them to react accordingly. Therefore, the framework presented in this article includes a fuzzy logic-based decision support system that provides information about the suspected disease and its severity.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Activities of daily living
SOK: Chasing accuracy and privacy;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85100178720&partnerID=40&md5=caf8ee27cf4ea1e2f3068c0780e0b260;Histograms and synthetic data are of key importance in data analysis. However, researchers have shown that even aggregated data such as histograms, containing no obvious sensitive attributes, can result in privacy leakage. To enable data analysis, a strong notion of privacy is required to avoid risking unintended privacy violations. Such a strong notion of privacy is differential privacy, a statistical notion of privacy that makes privacy leakage quantifiable. The caveat regarding differential privacy is that while it has strong guarantees for privacy, privacy comes at a cost of accuracy. Despite this trade-off being a central and important issue in the adoption of differential privacy, there exists a gap in the literature regarding providing an understanding of the trade-off and how to address it appropriately. Through a systematic literature review (SLR), we investigate the state-of-the-art within accuracy improving differentially private algorithms for histogram and synthetic data publishing. Our contribution is two-fold: 1) we identify trends and connections in the contributions to the field of differential privacy for histograms and synthetic data and 2) we provide an understanding of the privacy/ accuracy trade-off challenge by crystallizing different dimensions to accuracy improvement. Accordingly, we position and visualize the ideas in relation to each other and external work, and deconstruct each algorithm to examine the building blocks separately with the aim of pinpointing which dimension of accuracy improvement each technique/approach is targeting. Hence, this systematization of knowledge (SoK) provides an understanding of in which dimensions and how accuracy improvement can be pursued without sacrificing privacy.  2020, University of Skovde. All rights reserved.;Accuracy improvement; SoK; Synthetic data; Systematic literature review; Systematization of knowledge; Taxonomy;" Utility improvement""";
Reporting of demographic data and representativeness in machine learning models using electronic health records;Objective: The development of machine learning (ML) algorithms to address a variety of issues faced in clinical practice has increased rapidly. However, questions have arisen regarding biases in their development that can affect their applicability in specific populations. We sought to evaluate whether studies developing ML models from electronic health record (EHR) data report sufficient demographic data on the study populations to demonstrate representativeness and reproducibility. Materials and Methods: We searched PubMed for articles applying ML models to improve clinical decision-making using EHR data. We limited our search to papers published between 2015 and 2019. Results: Across the 164 studies reviewed, demographic variables were inconsistently reported and/or included as model inputs. Race/ethnicity was not reported in 64%;
A Lightweight Signcryption Method for Perception Layer in Internet-of-Things;Internet-of-Things (IoTs) are one of the most promising technologies in the present world. It connects people, processes and things. The increasing number of devices in IoT invoking various security and privacy issues. Authentication is one of them which should be measured at the very first level when a device comes into the network. Many authentication schemes are in use which follow the traditional cryptographic techniques of first-sign-then-encryption. The low performance and high complexity of these techniques also have urged the development of signcryption and lightweight signcryption techniques which are more beneficial for low-powered devices in IoTs. The literature study also provides a scope of improvement in the existing signcryption techniques. With this objectives, in this paper, the work shows a lightweight signcryption scheme for perception layer devices in IoT. It uses PHOTON-256 as a lightweight hash function which makes the proposed scheme less complex and faster. The performance of the scheme has been measured in terms of complexity, cost analysis and energy consumption. AVISPA validation is performed to evaluate security. The analysis of attacks, comparative experimentation and energy consumption confirm the efficiency of the scheme.  2020 Elsevier Ltd;Attacks
Effective attention-based network for syndrome differentiation of AIDS;Background: Syndrome differentiation aims at dividing patients into several types according to their clinical symptoms and signs, which is essential for traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Several previous works were devoted to employing the classical algorithms to classify the syndrome and achieved delightful results. However, the presence of ambiguous symptoms substantially disturbed the performance of syndrome differentiation, This disturbance is always due to the diversity and complexity of the patients’ symptoms. Methods: To alleviate this issue, we proposed an algorithm based on the multilayer perceptron model with an attention mechanism (ATT-MLP). In particular, we first introduced an attention mechanism to assign different weights for different symptoms among the symptomatic features. In this manner, the symptoms of major significance were highlighted and ambiguous symptoms were restrained. Subsequently, those weighted features were further fed into an MLP to predict the syndrome type of AIDS. Results: Experimental results for a real-world AIDS dataset show that our framework achieves significant and consistent improvements compared to other methods. Besides, our model can also capture the key symptoms corresponding to each type of syndrome. Conclusion: In conclusion, our proposed method can learn these intrinsic correlations between symptoms and types of syndromes. Our model is able to learn the core cluster of symptoms for each type of syndrome from limited data, while assisting medical doctors to diagnose patients efficiently.  2020, The Author(s).;AIDS
Security in product lifecycle of IoT devices: A survey;The Internet of Things (IoT) paradigm is considerably impacted by security challenges, which has lately demanded substantial consideration. Accordingly, certain reviews and surveys have been presented, focusing on disparate IoT-related domains, including IoT security, intrusion detection systems, and emerging technologies. However, in this article, we solely target IoT security with respect to product lifecycle stages. In that regard, we provide a comprehensive comparison of state-of-the-art surveys in an initial phase which concentrate on distinct parameters required for IoT security. Further, we present prominent solutions for addressing product lifecycle security in IoT. In this context, the contributions of this article are: (a) IoT product lifecycle security, (b) security taxonomy in IoT product lifecycle, (c) security solutions for each lifecycle phase in product lifecycle stages, and (d) open issues in these lifecycle stages that pose new research challenges. Consequently, the advancing research related to IoT security, especially with respect to product lifecycle, is explored through state-of-the-art developments in the domain of product lifecycle security.  2020 The Authors;Device security
GALB: Load Balancing Algorithm for CP-ABE Encryption Tasks in E-Health Environment;Security of personal data in the e-healthcare has always been challenging issue. The embedded and wearable devices used to collect these personal and critical data of the patients and users are sensitive in nature. Attribute-Based Encryption is believed to provide access control along with data security for distributed data among multiple parties. These resources limited devices do have the capabilities to secure the data while sending to the cloud but instead it increases the overhead and latency of running the encryption algorithm. On the top of if confidentiality is required, which will add more latency. In order to reduce latency and overhead, we propose a new load balancing algorithm that will distribute the data to nearby devices with available resources to encrypt the data and send it to the cloud. In this article, we are proposing a load balancing algorithm for EHealth system called (GALB). Our algorithm is based on Genetic Algorithm (GA). Our algorithm (GALB) distribute the tasks that received to the main gateway between the devices on E-health environment. The distribution strategy is based on the available resources in the devices, the distance between the gateway and the those devices, and the complexity of the task (size) and CP-ABE encryption policy length. In order to evaluate our algorithm performance, we compare the near optimal solution proposed by GALB with the optimal solution proposed by LP.  2020 IEEE.;CP-ABE
Extensions of the External Validation for Checking Learned Model Interpretability and Generalizability;We discuss the validation of machine learning models, which is standard practice in determining model efficacy and generalizability. We argue that internal validation approaches, such as cross-validation and bootstrap, cannot guarantee the quality of a machine learning model due to potentially biased training data and the complexity of the validation procedure itself. For better evaluating the generalization ability of a learned model, we suggest leveraging on external data sources from elsewhere as validation datasets, namely external validation. Due to the lack of research attractions on external validation, especially a well-structured and comprehensive study, we discuss the necessity for external validation and propose two extensions of the external validation approach that may help reveal the true domain-relevant model from a candidate set. Moreover, we also suggest a procedure to check whether a set of validation datasets is valid and introduce statistical reference points for detecting external data problems. External validation is critical for establishing machine learning model quality. To improve rigor and introduce structure into external validation processes, we propose two extensions, convergent and divergent validation. Using a case study, we demonstrate how convergent and divergent validations are set up and also discuss technical considerations for gauging performance, including establishment of statistical rigor, how to acquire valid external data, determining the number of times an external validation needs to be performed, and what to do when multiple external validations disagree with each other. Finally, we highlight that external validation remains and will be highly relevant, even to new machine learning paradigms. External validation is an important step for confirming potential for practical deployments of a machine learning or artificial intelligence algorithm. Unfortunately, this process is not well structured. We discuss how to make external validations more robust and systematic and also introduce two new extensions: convergent and divergent validations.  2020 The Authors;computational biology
A cultural heritage experience for visually impaired people;In recent years, we have assisted to an impressive advance of computer vision algorithms, based on image processing and artificial intelligence. Among the many applications of computer vision, in this paper we investigate on the potential impact for enhancing the cultural and physical accessibility of cultural heritage sites. By using a common smartphone as a mediation instrument with the environment, we demonstrate how convolutional networks can be trained for recognizing monuments in the surroundings of the users, thus enabling the possibility of accessing contents associated to the monument itself, or new forms of fruition for visually impaired people. Moreover, computer vision can also support autonomous mobility of people with visual disabilities, for identifying pre-defined paths in the cultural heritage sites, and reducing the distance between digital and real world.  2020 Institute of Physics Publishing. All rights reserved.;
Sequence Classification Restricted Boltzmann Machines with Gated Units;For the classification of sequential data, dynamic Bayesian networks and recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are the preferred models. While the former can explicitly model the temporal dependences between the variables, and the latter have the capability of learning representations. The recurrent temporal restricted Boltzmann machine (RTRBM) is a model that combines these two features. However, learning and inference in RTRBMs can be difficult because of the exponential nature of its gradient computations when maximizing log likelihoods. In this article, first, we address this intractability by optimizing a conditional rather than a joint probability distribution when performing sequence classification. This results in the 'sequence classification restricted Boltzmann machine' (SCRBM). Second, we introduce gated SCRBMs (gSCRBMs), which use an information processing gate, as an integration of SCRBMs with long short-Term memory (LSTM) models. In the experiments reported in this article, we evaluate the proposed models on optical character recognition, chunking, and multiresident activity recognition in smart homes. The experimental results show that gSCRBMs achieve the performance comparable to that of the state of the art in all three tasks. gSCRBMs require far fewer parameters in comparison with other recurrent networks with memory gates, in particular, LSTMs and gated recurrent units (GRUs).  2012 IEEE.;Recurrent neural networks (RNNs)
Blockchain-based Website Solution for Controlling the Authorized Sale of Drugs in Peru;Drug counterfeiting or adulteration is a worldwide concern due to the serious consequences they generate, especially in the health and economic sectors. This concern is greater in Peru, as it is among the top five countries with drug counterfeiting incidents in the Americas, according to a study carried out in 2018 by the Pan American Health Organization. In this paper, we present our project, which aims at implementing a technological solution that provides reliable information on the origin and authenticity of these products in Peru to the drug consumer user, preserving the security and integrity of the exposed information using Blockchain technology. Likewise, it allows showing detailed drug characteristics, such as: composition, pharmaceutical form, active ingredients, among other relevant information. The technological solution, proposed by our project, aims at publishing the commercial origin of drugs from their sale in laboratories and distributors to the sale to the public in pharmacies. In the development of this paper, a bibliographic review of research on the use of blockchain technology is presented, as well as its benefits in the health sector, the architecture used by the system and the conceptual commercialization chain that supports it, and the qualitative and quantitative validation for the drug query service is shown.  2020 IEEE.;Blockchain
Sociocultural Dimensions of Tracking Health and Taking Care;The field of personal health informatics has received increasing attention within the CSCW and HCI communities as health tracking becomes more affordable, accessible, and pervasive. Chronic disease management, in particular, presents tremendous potential for intervention given patients' ability to now actively participate in their care through tracking. The focus on 'personal' in health informatics, however, obfuscates the role of other cultural and ecological factors that might shape health tracking behaviors, and important information from alternative sources could be ignored by virtue of being subjective, complex, or simply hard to collect. To dig deeper into these negative spaces that may go untracked, uncover potential sources of important health information, and more completely understand current tracking practices, we embarked on an interview study with patients with cardiac diseases in Bangalore, India. In this paper, we present these patients' current health management approaches that are culturally situated, identifying both motivations and barriers to tracking, their attitudes towards online information, as well as cultural and ecological influences on their perceptions of cardiac care. We then discuss the interplay between our findings and current notions of, and approaches towards, patient empowerment and datafication of health.  2020 ACM.;datafication
Deep learning for identifying and classifying retinal diseases;Vision and eye health are one of the most crucial things in human life, it needs to be preserved to maintain the life of the individuals. Eye diseases such as CNV, DRUSEN, AMD, DME are mainly caused due to the damages of the retina, and since the retina is damaged and discovered at late stages, there is almost no chance to reverse vision and cure it, which means that the patient will lose the power of vision partially and maybe entirely. Optical Coherence Tomography is an advanced scanning device that can perform non-invasive cross-sectional imaging of internal structures in biological tissues by measuring their optical reflections. which will help the ophthalmologists to take a clear look on the back of the eye and determine at early stages the damage caused to the retina, macula, and optic nerve. The aim of this study is to propose a novel classification model based on deep learning and transfer learning to automatically classify the different retinal diseases using retinal images obtained from Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) device. We propose a deep CNN architecture and compared the obtained results with pretrained models such as Inception V3 and VGG-16, our proposed CNN architecture gave an accuracy of 98.5 % and Inception V3 model gave an accuracy up to 99.27 % on the test set while VGG-16 gave only 53% we modified VGG-16 architecture by adding more convolution layers and regularization terms to obtain a result up to 93.5%.  2020 IEEE.;Convolutional neural networks
Verify and measure the quality of rule based machine leaning;In recent years, explainable AI has been gaining great attention, and there is a surge of interest in studying how prediction models work and how to provide formal guarantees for the models. Rule based machine learning (RBML), which aims to automatically identify and learn a set of relational rules that collectively represent the knowledge captured by the system, are a popular class of techniques in machine learning and data mining. Since inconsistencies in the rule base learnt can have a significant, negative impact on how the system will perform and on the conclusions that it will reach, the present work addresses the issues of verification and evaluation of consistency of rule base resulted from machine learning or domain expert using the logic based automated reasoning method. The main contribution consists of two parts. The first one focused on the consistency of rule base in the classical logic sense, which can be transformed into conjunctive normal form, so the consistency of rule base learnt can be verified via a resolution based automated reasoning method. Due to the uncertainty inevitably included in the rule-base during the learning process, the more detailed work has been presented in the second part, i.e., focused on providing a formal foundation of RBML under uncertainty in order to support logical analysis, verify and measure the consistency degree of the rule-base under uncertainty based on many-valued logic automated reasoning framework and algorithms. Some examples are also provided in both parts to illustrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the present work.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;Automated reasoning
An Efficient IoT System Respecting the GDPR;Smart technologies integrated in the industry of Hotels is an emerging field in terms of the revolution of industry 4.0. Hotels in the context of providing luxury, specialization, intelligence and easiness to the residents, regarding the hotel's services, are willing to transform their concept into smart hotels by applying the Internet of Things (IoT) technologies to every operation, device, functionality and service and by providing to the residents the convenience of handling everything simply on themselves, through a smart device. However, security features of the IoT applications and privacy for the users are great issues for users and Organizations (residents and the industry of Hotels), due to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).In this paper, we focus on the development of a smart system, than can be applied to any smart building, especially to an intelligent hotel, that supports all smart functionalities, provides the desired convenience to the users, bases on IoT technologies and takes into account security and privacy preconditions indicated by the GDPR.  2020 IEEE.;GDPR
Successful Role of Smart Technology to Combat COVID-19;Wild and uncontrolled spread of the corona pandemic over several months throughout the world is a global issue. To combat this global issue advancement in information technology is also used along with medicine, biotechnology, and medical Instrumentation. Machine learning, artificial intelligence, and data science are providing a great contribution to the battle with COVID-19. By using such technologies there are high prospects to overcome with this pandemic and to lead a standard routine as it was before the pandemic. This paper analyses different technologies used in different conditions such as social distancing and prevention, quarantine and isolation, COVID detection and testing, patient treatment and care, and hospital management. This paper introduces transparent planning, technological methods, and digital procedures, with the latest smart tools in various sectors that help to defeat the intensity of coronavirus.  2020 IEEE.;Artificial intelligence
Deep Learning Algorithm Classifies Heartbeat Events Based on Electrocardiogram Signals;Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) have become the number 1 threat to human health. Their numerous complications mean that many countries remain unable to prevent the rapid growth of such diseases, although significant health resources have been invested toward their prevention and management. Electrocardiogram (ECG) is the most important non-invasive physiological signal for CVD screening and diagnosis. For exploring the heartbeat event classification model using single- or multiple-lead ECG signals, we proposed a novel deep learning algorithm and conducted a systemic comparison based on the different methods and databases. This new approach aims to improve accuracy and reduce training time by combining the convolutional neural network (CNN) with the bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM). To our knowledge, this approach has not been investigated to date. In this study, Database I with single-lead ECG and Database II with 12-lead ECG were used to explore a practical and viable heartbeat event classification model. An evolutionary neural system approach (Method I) and a deep learning approach (Method II) that combines CNN with BiLSTM network were compared and evaluated in processing heartbeat event classification. Overall, Method I achieved slightly better performance than Method II. However, Method I took, on average, 28.3 h to train the model, whereas Method II needed only 1 h. Method II achieved an accuracy of 80, 82.6, and 85% compared with the China Physiological Signal Challenge 2018, PhysioNet Challenge 2017, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology-Beth Israel Hospital (MIT-BIH) Arrhythmia datasets, respectively. These results are impressive compared with the performance of state-of-the-art algorithms used for the same purpose.  Copyright  2020 Liang, Yin, Tang, Zheng, Elgendi and Chen.;arrhythmia detection
Design pattern elicitation framework for proof of integrity in blockchain applications;An emerging technology with a secure and a decentralized nature, blockchain has the potential to transform conventional practices in an efficient and dynamic manner. However, migrating to blockchain can be challenging due to the complexity of its infrastructure and processes. The complexity of building applications on blockchain has been highlighted by many studies, thus stressing the need to investigate practical solutions further. A commonly known software engineering concept, software design pattern contributes to the acceleration of software development. It offers a holistic reusable solution for commonly occurring problems in a given context. It helps to identify problems that occur repetitively and describes best practices to address them. The present study is one of the first investigations to inquire into design patterns for blockchain application. Seeking to reduce the complexity in understanding and building applications on blockchain, this paper identifies a design pattern elicitation framework from similar blockchain applications. Next, it provides a demonstration of the Proof of Integrity (PoI) pattern elicited from two different applications on the blockchain. The applicability of the pattern is evaluated by building a blockchain application to verify the integrity of the academic certificates and by explaining how this integrity has been achieved empirically.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Authentication
A State-of-the-art Deep Transfer Learning-Based Model for Accurate Breast Cancer Recognition in Histology Images;Breast cancer is widely prevalent in women. To diagnose it, pathologists evaluate breast histopathology images under a microscope in various magnifications. However, the number of pathologists per population is low in many countries, and a mistake is probable. Nowadays, deep learning has become a popular artificial intelligence research trends. Even though deep neural networks have obtained promising results in image processing, the need for extensive training data avoids its use in medical image processing. After the evaluation of various state-of-the-art deep learning methods and algorithms in medical data processing, this study proposes an effective deep transfer learning-based model, relying on pre-trained DCNN using an extensive data of ImageNet dataset which improves state-of the-art systems in both binary and multi-class classification. The weights of the pre-trained DesneNet121 on the Imagenet are transferred as initial weights first, and then the model is fine-tuned with a deep classifier along with data augmentation to distinguish various malignant and benign samples in the two categories of binary and multi-class classification. In the multi-class classification, the proposed model obtained up to 97% image-level accuracy. In binary classification, the model obtained up to 100% image-level accuracy. The achieved-results are outperforming previous studies accuracies in multiple performance metrics in breast cancer CAD systems. Moreover, the proposed method is both flexible and scalable, meaning it can be easily expanded to cover the detection of other types of diseases in the future and be integrated with more CNNs to increase its generalization capabilities.  2020 IEEE.;BreakHis dataset
Blood uric acid prediction with machine learning: Model development and performance comparison;Background: Uric acid is associated with noncommunicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, chronic kidney disease, coronary artery disease, stroke, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, vascular dementia, and hypertension. Therefore, uric acid is considered to be a risk factor for the development of noncommunicable diseases. Most studies on uric acid have been performed in developed countries, and the application of machine-learning approaches in uric acid prediction in developing countries is rare. Different machine-learning algorithms will work differently on different types of data in various diseases;
Survey of Security and Privacy in Federated Learning [联邦学习安全与隐私保护综述];College of Computer Science and Technology/College of Artificial Intelligence, Nanjing University of Aeronautics & Astronautics, Nanjing, 211106, China Federated learning is a novel distributed learning framework which enables the sharing of training data across multiple participants without compromising their data privacy. However, such novel learning mechanism can still suffer from unprecedented security and privacy threats from various attackers. This article mainly explores the security and privacy challenges of federated learning by first introducing the preliminary knowledge and threat models to facilitate understanding of the potential attacks. Second, three types of attacks launched by the internal malicious entities are summarized and meanwhile the security and privacy vulnerabilities of federated learning architecture are analyzed. Third, the state-of-art protection solutions in aspects of differential privacy, homomorphic cryptosystem, and secure multi-party aggregation are surveyed. Finally, by summarizing and comparing these solutions, the promising directions are discussed.  2020, Editorial Department of Journal of NUAA. All right reserved.;Computer system structure
Research on blockchain evaluation methods under the classified protection of cybersecurity [网络安全等级保护下的区块链评估方法];A blockchain is a cryptographic distributed database and network transaction accounting system. In the current era of major technological changes, blockchain technology, with its cryptographic structure, peer-to-peer (P2P) network, consensus mechanism, smart contract and other mechanisms, is decentralized, tamper-proof, and traceable and has become a hot spot in the development of informatization. Classified protection is one of the basic policies of information security in China. The implementation of the information security level protection system can not only guide various industries in performing security management in accordance with the equivalent security standards, but also ensure that supervision and evaluation institutions follow the laws and regulations, which is of significance to network security. As the application of blockchain technology in various industries is becoming more extensive, it is necessary to simultaneously promote the national classified protection of blockchain security assessment, which contributes to the sustainable and healthy development of blockchains in China. According to the revised assessment methods of grade protection, in addition to the status of universality requirements, evaluation specifications should be formulated for specific technologies and fields (such as cloud computing, mobile Internet, Internet of Things, industrial control, and big data). In view of the particularity of blockchain technology, China has initiated the formulation of blockchain evaluation specifications, but has not applied the level protection standards to the formulation of blockchain evaluation specifications. Therefore, the assessment requirements and enforcement proposals are specified for the blockchain's core technologies, such as P2P network, distributed ledger, consensus mechanism, and smart contracts, according to the application and data security layer requirements at Level 3. Moreover, the current running data of blockchains and their security audit mechanism based on the log workflow were summarized and analyzed respectively in compliance with the control points specified in classified protection 2.0. Our investigation indicates that blockchains can satisfy the requirements of evaluation items in three aspects, namely, software fault tolerance, resource control, and backup and recovery. However, further improvements are needed for other aspects, including security audit, access control, identification and authentication, and data integrity. Copyright 2020 Chinese Journal of Engineering. All rights reserved.;Assessment and analysis
Towards a secure signature scheme based on multimodal biometric technology: Application for iot blockchain network;Blockchain technology has been commonly used in the last years in numerous fields, such as transactions documenting and monitoring real assets (house, cash) or intangible assets (copyright, intellectual property). The internet of things (IoT) technology, on the other hand, has become the main driver of the fourth industrial revolution, and is currently utilized in diverse fields of industry. New approaches have been established through improving the authentication methods in the blockchain to address the constraints of scalability and protection in IoT operating environments of distributed blockchain technology by control of a private key. However, these authentication mechanisms do not consider security when applying IoT to the network, as the nature of IoT communication with numerous entities all the time in various locations increases security risks resulting in extreme asset damage. This posed many difficulties in finding harmony between security and scalability. To address this gap, the work suggested in this paper adapts multimodal biometrics to strengthen network security by extracting a private key with high entropy. Additionally, via a whitelist, the suggested scheme evaluates the security score for the IoT system with a blockchain smart contract to guarantee that highly secured applications authenticate easily and restrict compromised devices. Experimental results indicate that our system is existentially unforgeable to an efficient message attack, and therefore, decreases the expansion of infected devices to the network by up to 49 percent relative to traditional schemes.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Bilinear pairing
Using a multi-level process comparison for process change analysis in cancer pathways;The area of process change over time is a particular concern in healthcare, where patterns of care emerge and evolve in response to individual patient needs. We propose a structured approach to analyse process change over time that is suitable for the complex domain of healthcare. Our approach applies a qualitative process comparison at three levels of abstraction: a holistic perspective (process model), a middle-level perspective (trace), and a fine-grained detail (activity). Our aim was to detect change points, localise and characterise the change, and unravel/understand the process evolution. We illustrate the approach using a case study of cancer pathways in Leeds where we found evidence of change points identified at multiple levels. In this paper, we extend our study by analysing the miners used in process discovery and providing a deeper analysis of the activity of investigation in trace and activity levels. In the experiment, we show that this qualitative approach provides a useful understanding of process change over time. Examining change at three levels provides confirmatory evidence of process change where perspectives agree, while contradictory evidence can lead to focused discussions with domain experts. This approach should be of interest to others dealing with processes that undergo complex change over time.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Cancer pathways
Video-based stress detection through deep learning;Stress has become an increasingly serious problem in the current society, threatening mankind’s well-beings. With the ubiquitous deployment of video cameras in surroundings, detecting stress based on the contact-free camera sensors becomes a cost-effective and mass-reaching way without interference of artificial traits and factors. In this study, we leverage users’ facial expressions and action motions in the video and present a two-leveled stress detection network (TSDNet). TSDNet firstly learns face-and action-level representations separately, and then fuses the results through a stream weighted integrator with local and global attention for stress identification. To evaluate the performance of TSDNet, we constructed a video dataset containing 2092 labeled video clips, and the experimental results on the built dataset show that: (1) TSDNet outperformed the hand-crafted feature engineering approaches with detection accuracy 85.42% and F1-Score 85.28%, demonstrating the feasibility and effectiveness of using deep learning to analyze one’s face and action motions;
Mapping of diseases from clinical medicine research—a visualization study;By employing bibliometric method, this study aimed to visualize the research hotspots and correlations among clinical medicine subjects. Literatures were retrieved from the PubMed database based on MeSH words and free-text phrases and screened based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. The disease themes were manually marked according to ICD-10. Co-word analysis and strategic diagram methods were applied to explore the hot topics and development trends of disease themes. 2551 articles were included after literature screening. The amount of paper showed an increasing trend and reached a peak in 2013. The subjects of adults and the elderly accounted for 45.0% and 27.0% respectively. The United States of America had the most publication, with Massachusetts and California being the most prevalent states, and Harvard University was the most prolific institution. Co-word analysis revealed that research hot topics of diseases were divided into 8 themes, among which the most was “disease of the circulatory system” and “injury, poisoning and certain other consequences of external causes”. The strategic diagram showed that the above two topics were mature but relatively independent, while the “physical fitness” topic was not mature enough but was closely related to the others. There are more and more data-driven studies in the field of medicine and health, while, huge development spaces in the full spectrum of the diseases do exist. Mining the published researches through bibliometrics and visualized methods could come up with valuable results to inform further study.  2020, The Author(s).;Bibliometrics
Digital microbiology;Background: Digitalization and artificial intelligence have an important impact on the way microbiology laboratories will work in the near future. Opportunities and challenges lie ahead to digitalize the microbiological workflows. Making efficient use of big data, machine learning, and artificial intelligence in clinical microbiology requires a profound understanding of data handling aspects. Objective: This review article summarizes the most important concepts of digital microbiology. The article gives microbiologists, clinicians and data scientists a viewpoint and practical examples along the diagnostic process. Sources: We used peer-reviewed literature identified by a PubMed search for digitalization, machine learning, artificial intelligence and microbiology. Content: We describe the opportunities and challenges of digitalization in microbiological diagnostic processes with various examples. We also provide in this context key aspects of data structure and interoperability, as well as legal aspects. Finally, we outline the way for applications in a modern microbiology laboratory. Implications: We predict that digitalization and the usage of machine learning will have a profound impact on the daily routine of laboratory staff. Along the analytical process, the most important steps should be identified, where digital technologies can be applied and provide a benefit. The education of all staff involved should be adapted to prepare for the advances in digital microbiology.  2020 The Authors;Analytics
Intelligent city intelligent medical sharing technology based on internet of things technology;Because of the imperfect domestic public medical management system, high medical costs, less channels and other problems troubling people's livelihood. In particular, medical problems represented by ”inefficient medical system, poor quality of medical services, medical difficulties and high costs” are the focus of social concern. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to establish a set of intelligent medical information network platform system, so that patients can enjoy safe, convenient and high-quality diagnosis and treatment services on the basis of short waiting time and basic medical expenses. Fundamentally solve the problem of ”difficult and expensive medical treatment”, and truly achieve ”everyone's health, everyone's health”. This paper designs and develops a medical distributed data sharing and integration system based on distributed heterogeneous data sets of medical data, and applies it to some local first-class hospitals. Finally, after questionnaire and interview survey, it is concluded that compared with the previous medical treatment, the sharing of intelligent medicine among the general public has increased by about 79%, and the medical environment has been greatly improved.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;Data encryption
A personalized health monitoring system for community-dwelling elderly people in Hong Kong: Design; and evaluation study;https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092681292&doi=10.2196%2f19223&partnerID=40&md5=1ee3ce92e5d9bbc714f049a147ea9407;Background: Telehealth is an effective means to assist existing health care systems, particularly for the current aging society. However, most extant telehealth systems employ individual data sources by offline data processing, which may not recognize health deterioration in a timely way. Objective: Our study objective was two-fold: to design and implement an integrated, personalized telehealth system on a community-based level;
Different learning predictors and their effects for moodle machine learning models;In this paper 16 different Moodle Machine Learning models for predicting the success of 57 full-time students enrolled in the Applied Statistics course at the University of Dunaújváros in Hungary have been developed and tested in terms of 'goodness'. The success can be affected by several factors, but here only students' cognitive activities are examined. The predictors used in the models are based on: number of view of PDF lecture notes, number of views of video lectures, number of views of books of solved exercises, number of views of Minitab videos (videos for problem solving with a statistical software), number of attempts of quizzes and best grades achieved by students on quizzes. The models differed in the number and in the types of predictors. Binary Logistic Regression was used for model training and evaluation. The target of the models indicates whether a student is at risk of not achieving the minimum grade to pass the course. The impact of cognitive predictors that are part of the Moodle core Analytics API on predictive power was also examined. Having evaluated the goodness of the different models, it was shown that students' success can be predicted purely from cognitive activities, but their predictive powers are very diverse. The predictors of quizzes have the largest impact on the success, however, supplementing the model with other even less effective predictors much better model can be made. Models built from purely Moodle core cognitive predictors give much less reliable results.  2020 IEEE.;Learning Analytics
Psychological first aid models during the COVID-19 Outbreak : tthe role of InfoCommunication Technologies;In few months, COVID-19 outbreak, lockdown and social distancing have led an exponential increase in levels of psychological distress within the population. In the face of such conditions, the need to ensure continuity of mental health services emerged concurrently with the need of a substantial intervention reconfiguration. This paper is aimed at addressing the knowledge gained from telepsychological interventions during the COVID-19 outbreak peak to identify new research lines originating from the limits encountered during interventions. This has relevant implications even for the development of new IC technologies, and more generally for the scope and goals of CogInfoCom.  2020 IEEE.;Communication
A Weighted Text Representation framework for Sentiment Analysis of Medical Drug Reviews;The steady growth of the Internet has increased the amount of user-generated data on the web. Patients are now commonly posting their reviews after consuming the medicines to express themselves and create public awareness. Sentiment analysis can significantly contribute to the medical field by analyzing these public reviews and study the effectiveness or popularity of several medicines. Hence, in this paper, we propose an effective framework based on the weighted word representation technique and adding linguistic constraints to model the contextually similar words. We also train five popular classifiers for the same, namely: SVM, Decision Tree, Random Forests, Naïve Bayes, and K-Nearest Neighbor. Extensive experiments were performed on the drug review dataset, which is crawled from online pharmaceutical review websites. The results demonstrate that the proposed framework has outperformed various state-of-the-art by showing an accuracy of 94.6% and an F1 score of 90.2%, respectively. This shows that the framework has effectively captured the sentiments expressed by the people on different drugs.  2020 IEEE.;Embedding
Spatial-temporal distribution analysis of industrial heat sources in the us with geocoded,  tree-based,  large-scale clustering;Heavy industrial burning contributes significantly to the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. It is responsible for almost one-quarter of the global energy-related CO2 emissions and its share continues to grow. Mostly, those industrial emissions are accompanied by a great deal of high-temperature heat emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels by steel, petrochemical, or cement plants. Fortunately, these industrial heat emission sources treated as thermal anomalies can be detected by satellite-borne sensors in a quantitive way. However, most of the dominant remote sensing-based fire detection methods barely work well for heavy industrial heat source discernment. Although the object-oriented approach, especially the data clustering-based approach, has guided a novel method of detection, it is still limited by the costly computation and storage resources. Furthermore, when scaling to a national, or even global, long time-series detection, it is greatly challenged by the tremendous computation introduced by the incredible large-scale data clustering of tens of millions of high-dimensional fire data points. Therefore, we proposed an improved parallel identification method with geocoded, task-tree-based, large-scale clustering for the spatial-temporal distribution analysis of industrial heat emitters across the United States from long time-series active Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) data. A recursive k-means clustering method is introduced to gradually segment and cluster industrial heat objects. Furthermore, in order to avoid the blindness caused by random cluster center initialization, the time series VIIRS hotspots data are spatially pre-grouped into GeoSOT-encoded grid tasks which are also treated as initial clustering objects. In addition, some grouped parallel clustering strategy together with geocoding-aware task tree scheduling is adopted to sufficiently exploit parallelism and performance optimization. Then, the spatial-temporal distribution pattern and its changing trend of industrial heat emitters across the United States are analyzed with the identified industrial heat sources. Eventually, the performance experiment also demonstrated the efficiency and encouraging scalability of this approach.  2020 by the authors.;Clustering
Comparative analysis and study of data mining techniques used for IoT based smart healthcare system;Among the broad and excitingset of applications empowered by the Internet of Things (IoT), Healthcare is the most interactive one. Smart healthcare is apioneering procedure of synergizing the benefits of the Internet ofThings (IoT), sensors, and large data analysis to convey better healthcare services with reduced costs.Asignificant aspect of the study in such a framework is how to treat and handle the data. This paper gives acomaprative analysis and a current reviewof themost recent techniques and algorithms used to analyze the data generated from wearable sensors utilized for physiological observation of crucial symptom in the patients. The paper starts withabrief introduction of the idea ofIoT in the healthcare domain alongwith the rising requirementfor data mining techniques in this domain. It also provides a detailed study ofdiverse data mining techniques and algorithms utilizedby different researchers for accurate identification of diseases. In last, based on the literature study a comparative analysisof different data mining techniques used for diagnosis of diseases like diabetes, heartdisease, Parkinson, liver disorder, hypertension, etc. is made. This will take attention in the direction of the set of data mining techniques and tools that are highly useful for the analysis of different diseases and for making decision process accordingly.  2020, World Academy of Research in Science and Engineering. All rights reserved.;Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Process mining in healthcare systems: A critical review and its future;Nowadays, process mining is the emerging technique and is widely used across industry domains. Process mining is evolving important role for patients as well as hospital management. In this paper, we applied process mining techniques in health care industry. We used the process mining techniques to find the flow of process in different categories of users involving in processes. This process mining is used to provide an accurate solution of the care flows under each consideration. Our study explores various journals and conferences about the usage of process mining in dynamic health care systems using different algorithms and finds the patient's process flows and effectiveness of employees in hospital. The process flow extracts the information from the event log and visualizes the care flow with respect to different attributes and improves the work flow of process. This survey aims to study the various research papers about process mining using different techniques in health care and analyses gathering the findings.  2020, World Academy of Research in Science and Engineering. All rights reserved.;Event log
Fog computing for realizing smart neighborhoods in smart grids;Cloud Computing provides on-demand computing services like software, networking, storage, analytics, and intelligence over the Internet (“the cloud”). But it is facing challenges because of the explosion of the Internet of Things (IoT) devices and the volume, variety, veracity and velocity of the data generated by these devices. There is a need for ultra-low latency, reliable service along with security and privacy. Fog Computing is a promising solution to overcome these challenges. The originality, scope and novelty of this paper is the definition and formulation of the problem of smart neighborhoods in context of smart grids. This is achieved through an extensive literature study, firstly on Fog Computing and its foundation technologies, its applications and the literature review of Fog Computing research in various application domains. Thereafter, we introduce smart grid and community MicroGrid concepts and, their challenges to give the in depth background of the problem and hence, formalize the problem. The smart grid, which ensures reliable, secure, and cost-effective power supply to the smart neighborhoods, effectively needs Fog Computing architecture to achieve its purpose. This paper also identifies, without rigorous analysis, potential solutions to address the problem of smart neighborhoods. The challenges in the integration of Fog Computing and smart grids are also discussed.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Artificial intelligence
Extraction of missing tendency using decision tree learning in business process event log;In recent years, process mining has been attracting attention as an effective method for improving business operations by analyzing event logs that record what is done in business processes. The event log may contain missing data due to technical or human error, and if the data are missing, the analysis results will be inadequate. Traditional methods mainly use prediction completion when there are missing values, but accurate completion is not always possible. In this paper, we propose a method for understanding the tendency of missing values in the event log using decision tree learning without supplementing the missing values. We conducted experiments using data from the incident management system and confirmed the effectiveness of our method.  2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.;Business process management
What you need to know before implementing a clinical research data warehouse: Comparative review of integrated data repositories in health care institutions;Background: Integrated data repositories (IDRs), also referred to as clinical data warehouses, are platforms used for the integration of several data sources through specialized analytical tools that facilitate data processing and analysis. IDRs offer several opportunities for clinical data reuse, and the number of institutions implementing an IDR has grown steadily in the past decade. Objective: The architectural choices of major IDRs are highly diverse and determining their differences can be overwhelming. This review aims to explore the underlying models and common features of IDRs, provide a high-level overview for those entering the field, and propose a set of guiding principles for small- to medium-sized health institutions embarking on IDR implementation. Methods: We reviewed manuscripts published in peer-reviewed scientific literature between 2008 and 2020, and selected those that specifically describe IDR architectures. Of 255 shortlisted articles, we found 34 articles describing 29 different architectures. The different IDRs were analyzed for common features and classified according to their data processing and integration solution choices. Results: Despite common trends in the selection of standard terminologies and data models, the IDRs examined showed heterogeneity in the underlying architecture design. We identified 4 common architecture models that use different approaches for data processing and integration. These different approaches were driven by a variety of features such as data sources, whether the IDR was for a single institution or a collaborative project, the intended primary data user, and purpose (research-only or including clinical or operational decision making). Conclusions: IDR implementations are diverse and complex undertakings, which benefit from being preceded by an evaluation of requirements and definition of scope in the early planning stage. Factors such as data source diversity and intended users of the IDR influence data flow and synchronization, both of which are crucial factors in IDR architecture planning.  Kristina K Gagalova, M Angelica Leon Elizalde, Elodie Portales-Casamar, Matthias Görges. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (http://formative.jmir.org), 27.08.2020. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work, first published in JMIR Formative Research, is properly cited. The complete bibliographic information, a link to the original publication on http://formative.jmir.org, as well as this copyright and license information must be included.;Data aggregation
Predicting PTSD Severity in Veterans from Self-reports for Early Intervention: A Machine Learning Approach;Early intervention for veterans in crisis represents a crucial area of study to reduce the psychological and health burdens for this population. Traumatic experiences associated with military service are associated with drug and alcohol abuse, suicidality, anger, and disrupted work and family relationships. This project used machine learning (ML) models to integrate data from sociodemographic, self-report baseline symptoms, weekly brief Ecological momentary assessment (EMA) survey of veterans in a community-based 12-week peer support program to predict the discharge PTSD severity level. The ML predictions place the participants into one of the three risk levels: low, medium, and high PCL-5 score. The models were evaluated at different timepoints (weekly intervals) of the program for identifying the earliest week to guide early intervention and reduce veterans' engagement in risky behaviors. The best results were achieved from a voting classifier with an average f-score of 0.69 at week 4.  2020 IEEE.;high-risk behaviors
Honeypot contract risk warning on ethereum smart contracts;As Ethereum's smart contracts have boomed, it has become an integral part of the blockchain ecosystem. Unfortunately, some malicious users also find the opportunity to use fraudulent means to profit. A new reported approach is to lure new users or other attackers into the contract in an attempt to make a profit by exposing seemingly obvious flaws in the contract. But in fact, the contract contains a hidden trap that ultimately benefits the creator of the contract. Such contracts are known as honeypot contracts in the blockchain ecosystem. Previous studies proposed two methods to identify such smart contracts by using symbolic execution and contract behaviors. However, these methods either make it difficult to discover new categories or fail to warn users before they lose money. To solve this problem, we propose a machine learning model to detect honeypot contracts based on N-gram features and LightGBM. Extensive experiments show that our proposed model performs well in different conditions.  2020 IEEE.;Blockchain
Connected mental health: Systematic mapping study;Background: Although mental health issues constitute an increasing global burden affecting a large number of people, the mental health care industry is still facing several care delivery barriers such as stigma, education, and cost. Connected mental health (CMH), which refers to the use of information and communication technologies in mental health care, can assist in overcoming these barriers. Objective: The aim of this systematic mapping study is to provide an overview and a structured understanding of CMH literature available in the Scopus database. Methods: A total of 289 selected publications were analyzed based on 8 classification criteria: publication year, publication source, research type, contribution type, empirical type, mental health issues, targeted cohort groups, and countries where the empirically evaluated studies were conducted. Results: The results showed that there was an increasing interest in CMH publications; Information technology; Interdisciplinary research; Mental health; MHealth; Mobile health; Mobile phone; Review;" Telehealth""";
Managing COVID-19 with a clinical decision support tool in a community health network: Algorithm development and validation;Background: The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has resulted in significant morbidity and mortality;
Private Data Protection Scheme for Consortium Blockchain Based on Two-layer Cooperation [基于双层协同的联盟区块链隐私数据保护方法];This study proposes a two-layer collaborative approach for privacy protection in consortium blockchain. The proposed approach consists of two layers. 1. Inter-chain privacy protection: such protection approach aims to protect the privacy between different businesses. This approach is realized by separating and storing the data of different businesses. 2. Intra-chain privacy protection: such protection approach is realized by embedding collection field into transaction body to specify the participants of privacy protection. Then, this approach regards the receiving blockchain node as a relay node to synchronize private data. At the same time, the relay node is also responsible to construct a public transaction by replacing the private payload with its hash after which the public transaction will be synchronized to all participants through consensus. Finally, private participant nodes update their private ledgers to achieve intra-chain privacy. To verify the validity of the proposed approach, some experiments are designed to measure the throughput of inter-chain privacy protection and the delay of intra-chain privacy protection. The experimental results show that the privacy protection approach which is combined with coarse-grained inter-chain protection and fine-grained intra-chain protection ensures the considerable performance and satisfies the privacy requirements at the same time. Thus, the proposed approach has made a potential contribution to the privacy and security of blockchain platform.  Copyright 2020, Institute of Software, the Chinese Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.;Blockchain
Implementation of data access and use procedures in clinical data warehouses. A systematic review of literature and publicly available policies;Background: The promises of improved health care and health research through data-intensive applications rely on a growing amount of health data. At the core of large-scale data integration efforts, clinical data warehouses (CDW) are also responsible for data governance, managing data access and (re)use. As the complexity of the data flow increases, greater transparency and standardization of criteria and procedures are required in order to maintain objective oversight and control. Therefore, the development of practice oriented and evidence-based policies is crucial. This study assessed the spectrum of data access and use criteria and procedures in clinical data warehouses governance internationally. Methods: We performed a systematic review of (a) the published scientific literature on CDW and (b) publicly available information on CDW data access, e.g., data access policies. A qualitative thematic analysis was applied to all included literature and policies. Results: Twenty-three scientific publications and one policy document were included in the final analysis. The qualitative analysis led to a final set of three main thematic categories: (1) requirements, including recipient requirements, reuse requirements, and formal requirements;
Machine learning in the EU health care context: exploring the ethical,  legal and social issues;Diagnosis and clinical decision-making based on Machine Learning technologies are showing significant advances that may change the functioning of our health care systems. They promise more effective and efficient healthcare at a lower cost. Even though evidence suggests that all these promises have yet to be demonstrated in clinical practice, it is undeniable that these technologies are already re-signifying the relationships on the health care landscape, particularly in the physician-patient relationship, which we can already redefine as a ‘physician-computer-patient relationship’. This new scenario is undoubtedly promising, but it also poses some fundamental issues that need an urgent answer. An inappropriate use of Machine Learning might involve a dramatic loss in the patients’ rights to informed consent or possible discrimination reflecting their personal circumstances. Unfortunately, the traditional principles incorporated by medical law are insufficient to face this challenge. Our most recent regulatory framework, defined by the General Regulation on Data Protection, might be useful in order to avoid this scenario since it includes the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing. In this paper, however, we argue that this legal tool is adequate but not sufficient to address the legal, ethical and social challenges that Machine Learning technologies pose to patients’ rights and health care givers’ capacities. Therefore, further development of the regulation on this topic and the development of new actors such as the Health Information Counsellors, will be necessary.  2020,  2020 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.;black box
The application of consortium blockchain in health inspection system for special equipments on service security and privacy protection [联盟链技术在特种设备健康检测体系中的应用];"The construction of special equipments, health detection and monitoring cloud platform starts the process of ""service"" of the whole industry, which can achieve a lot in service reuse and service precipitation. However ""service"" brings advantages as well as some challenges. Since it requires remote service calls and needs to share some industry data, data security and privacy protection during service invocation become a major problem, the solution of which is the focus of this paper. The establishment of the special equipment health detection system based on the consortium blockchain technology was proposed to solves the data security and privacy protection problems in the service invocation process, providing protection for service security and privacy to some extent.  2020, Editorial Board of Journal of Chongqing University, Chongqing University Journals Department. All right reserved.";Consortium blockchain
PD and the Challenge of AI in Health-Care;In its promise to contribute to considerable cost savings and improved patient care through efficient analysis of the tremendous amount of data stored in electronic health records (EHR), there is currently a strong push for the proliferation of artificial intelligence (AI) in health-care. We identify, through a study of AI being used to predict patient no-show's, that for the AI to gain full potential there lies a need to balance the introduction of AI with a proper focus on the patients and the clinicians' interests. We call for a Participatory Design (PD) approach to understand and reconfigure the socio-technical setup in health-care, especially where AI is being used on EHR data that are manually being submitted by health-care personnel.  2020 ACM.;Artificial Intelligence
Authorized certificateless conjunctive keyword search on encrypted EHRs from WSNs;Nowadays, mobile wearable sensor devices are increasingly used to collect real-time electronic health records (EHRs), which are encrypted to protect the user privacy and outsourced to the cloud for alleviating the local storage pressure. Unfortunately, encryption will cause the difficulty for the medical institutions to search the target EHRs. To address this challenge, we propose an authorized certificateless conjunctive keyword search on encrypted EHRs. First, our scheme subtly integrates certificateless public key cryptosystem with attribute-based keyword search, which eliminates key escrow problems and provides search permission control. That is to say, only medical institutions specified by the data owners can search and access EHRs in the cloud. Second, our scheme supports conjunctive keyword search to improve search accuracy, and adopts hidden access structure to protect the privacy of users and EHRs. Third, our scheme supports EHRs dynamic updating which enables the data owners to flexibly insert and delete the EHRs in the cloud. Finally, the performance evaluation demonstrates that our scheme is efficient and practical.  2020 Institute of Information Science. All rights reserved.;Conjunctive keyword
Implementing analytics projects in a hospital: Successes,  and opportunities;Healthcare lags decades behind other industries in terms of operational analytics. Numerous technical proof-of-concept projects in the use of optimization, machine learning, and other analytical methods to solve clinical and operational problems in hospitals and other healthcare settings have been published, but relatively few have been shown to provide sustained value. For a project to provide sustained value, it must succeed in each of four successive stages: stakeholder engagement, technical performance, implementation, and sustained use. We describe recent work on a variety of analytical projects that we have carried out at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford with a focus on key reasons why projects failed or succeeded at each stage. We discuss lessons learned, and we present principles and best practices for the design of analytical projects intended for implementation in healthcare settings.  2020 INFORMS.;Healthcare
Ethical Value-Centric Cybersecurity: A Methodology Based on a Value Graph;Our society is being shaped in a non-negligible way by the technological advances of recent years, especially in information and communications technologies (ICTs). The pervasiveness and democratization of ICTs have allowed people from all backgrounds to access and use them, which has resulted in new information-based assets. At the same time, this phenomenon has brought a new class of problems, in the form of activists, criminals and state actors that target the new assets to achieve their goals, legitimate or not. Cybersecurity includes the research, tools and techniques to protect information assets. However, some cybersecurity measures may clash with the ethical values of citizens.We analyze the synergies and tensions between some of these values, namely security, privacy, fairness and autonomy. From this analysis, we derive a value graph, and then we set out to identify those paths in the graph that lead to satisfying all four aforementioned values in the cybersecurity setting, by taking advantage of their synergies and avoiding their tensions. We illustrate our conceptual discussion with examples of enabling technologies. We also sketch how our methodology can be generalized to any setting where several potentially conflicting values have to be satisfied.  2019, Springer Nature B.V.;Autonomy
Adaptive enterprise architecture M-NEA for moroccan national system: Towards moroccan smart-government;Morocco has tried since 2009 to take charge of the digitization of its government through a national project which has experienced several difficulties due to organizational specificities. The major difficulty lies in the need to create a mediation system offering services shared between several administrations and agencies working in a completely autonomous way. Our proposal is a National Moroccan Architecture M-NEA based on an adequate reconsideration of the system and expectations of digitization. By first moving from a target e-government system to a target SMART GOVERNMENT and respecting the specificities of the national system while applying good practices. We proposed to consider the Moroccan public system as a system of systems, in applying good enterprise architecture practices for each defined independent system. We implemented the overall architecture proposed using the ZACKMAN enterprise architecture framework which is considered the most suitable enterprise architecture framework as a starting point for defining a taxonomy guide for the proposed enterprise architecture.  2020 IEEE.;E-government
Multi-Scale Shapelets Discovery for Time-Series Classification;Shapelets are subsequences of time-series that represent local patterns and can improve the accuracy and the interpretability of time-series classification. The major task of time-series classification using shapelets is to discover high quality shapelets. However, this is challenging since local patterns may have various scales/lengths rather than a unified scale. In this paper, we resolve this problem by discovering shapelets with multiple scales. We propose a novel Multi-Scale Shapelet Discovery (MSSD) algorithm to discover expressive multi-scale shapelets by extending initial single-scale shapelets (i.e., shapelets with a unified scale). MSSD adopts a bi-directional extension process and is robust to extend single-shapelets obtained by different methods. A supervised shapelet quality measurement is further developed to qualify the extension of shapelets. Comprehensive experiments conducted on 25 UCR time-series datasets show that multi-scale shapelets discovered by MSSD improve classification accuracy by around 10% (in average), compared with single-scale shapelets discovered by counterpart methods.  2020 World Scientific Publishing Company.;classification
Fuzzy inference model based on triaxial signals for pronation and supination assessment in Parkinson's disease patients;Nowadays, the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale supported by the Movement Disorder Society (MDS-UPDRS), is a standardized and widely accepted instrument to rate Parkinson's disease (PD). This work presents a thorough analysis of item 3.6 of the MDS-UPDRS scale which corresponds to the pronation and supination hand movements. The motivation for this work lies in the objective quantification of motor affectations not covered by the MDS-UPDRS scale such as unsteady oscillations and velocity decrements during the motor exploration. Overall, 12 different bio-mechanical features were quantified based on measurements performed by inertial measurement units (IMUs). After a feature selection process, the selected bio-mechanical features were used as inputs for a fuzzy inference model that predicts the stage of development of the disease in each patient. In addition to this model's output, the scores of three different expert examiners and the output of a fuzzy inference model which covers affectations strictly attached the MDS-UPDRS guidelines, were also considered to obtain an integrated computational model. The proposed integrated model was incorporated using the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), which gives the novelty of a combined score that helps expert examiners to give a broader assessment of the disease that covers both affectations mentioned in the MDS-UPDRS guidelines and affectations not covered by it in an objective manner.  2020 Elsevier B.V.;Feature extraction
Information technology and eHealth to improve patient safety [Informationstechnologie und E-Health zur Verbesserung der Patientensicherheit];Patient safety is a key element of high-quality healthcare. Digitalization, new eHealth applications and data-based algorithms have high potential to make a significant contribution. This article presents current technological developments along a simplified patient journey from emergency medical triage, diagnosis and therapy to follow-up. The technical interventions are highly diverse and mostly accompanied by a low level of evidence, since most of them are from single academic projects or start-ups. Although there should be no doubt that technology is an important instrument for increasing patient safety, new technologies also involve new risks. Furthermore, technical measures must always be embedded in an overall concept of organizational measures, adequate education, training and accompanying research in order to generate the highest possible benefits and lowest possible risks.  2020, Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, ein Teil von Springer Nature.;Diagnosis, computer-assisted
Technological advances relevant to transport – understanding what drives them;Transport policy makers are increasingly perplexed by the pace of change in their sector and by the increasing influence of external actors. This leads to a variety of responses, including “business as usual”, technological optimism, technological fatalism and technological ignorance. To explore this perplexity and its justification, we examine four areas of technological advance relevant to transport: mobility as a service;
Top management's communication in economic crisis and the firm's subsequent performance: sentiment analysis approach;Purpose: In economic crisis, where tensions create anxiety and test the emotions of the firms' shareholders, communication from top management is very crucial as it provides the reflection of the managers' interpretation of the firms' situation and potential strategies. The goal of this paper is to investigate the relationships between sentiment, as an aspect of emotions extracted from the letters to shareholders, managerial discretion and the firms' subsequent performance and performance trajectory during crisis. Design/methodology/approach: A sentiment analysis was conducted to extract the sentiment from the letters to shareholders, which were collected from firms in two countries with different levels of managerial discretion (US vs. Japan). Hypotheses were developed and tested using a series of regression analysis. Findings: The primary findings indicate that (1) managerial sentiment identified in letters to shareholders can potentially be related to the firm's subsequent performance in the economic crisis, and (2) managerial discretion moderates the relationship between managerial sentiment and subsequent firm performance. Practical implications: When the managerial discretion is high, firms' shareholders can use the sentiment in top management communications to gauge whether the firms' situation would be improving in the near future. Originality/value: This study expands the current research on sentiment analysis and firm performance to the context of economic crisis by suggesting that managerial sentiment can be substantially provoked as firms are facing with stressful economic conditions. The study also highlights the moderating role of managerial discretion on the firms' subsequent performance.  2020, Emerald Publishing Limited.;Economic crisis
A cryptographic cloud-based approach for the mitigation of the airline cargo cancellation problem;In order to keep in good long-term relationships with their main customers, Airline Cargo companies do not impose any fee for last minute cancellations of shipments. As a result, customers can book the same shipment on several cargo companies. Cargo companies try to balance cancellations by a corresponding volume of overbooking. However, the considerable uncertainty in the number of cancellations does not allow to fine-tune the optimal overbooking level, causing losses. In this work, we show how the deployment of cryptographic techniques, enabling the computation on private information of customers and companies data can improve the overall service chain, allowing for striking and enforcing better agreements. We propose a query system based on proxy re-encryption and show how the relevant information can be extracted, still preserving the privacy of customers’ data. Furthermore, we provide a Game Theoretic model of the use case scenario and show that it allows a more accurate estimate of the cancellation rates. This supports the reduction of the uncertainty and allows to better tune the overbooking level.  2020 Elsevier Ltd;Airline Cargo
Mutual-aid mobile app for emergency care: Feasibility study;Background: Improving the quality of patient care through the use of mobile devices is one of the hot topics in the health care field. In unwanted situations like an accident, ambulances and rescuers often require a certain amount of time to arrive at the scene. Providing immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to patients might improve survival. Objective: The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of an emergency and mutual-aid app model in Taiwan and to provide a reference for government policy. Methods: A structured questionnaire was developed as a research tool. All questionnaires were designed according to the technology acceptance model, and a Likert scale was used to measure the degree of agreement or disagreement. Moreover, in-depth interviews were conducted with six experts from medical, legal, and mobile app departments. Each expert was interviewed once to discuss feasible countermeasures and suggestions. Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS version 19;
Mutual-aid mobile app for emergency care: feasibility study;Background: Improving the quality of patient care through the use of mobile devices is one of the hot topics in the health care field. In unwanted situations like an accident, ambulances and rescuers often require a certain amount of time to arrive at the scene. Providing immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to patients might improve survival. Objective: The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of an emergency and mutual-aid app model in Taiwan and to provide a reference for government policy. Methods: A structured questionnaire was developed as a research tool. All questionnaires were designed according to the technology acceptance model, and a Likert scale was used to measure the degree of agreement or disagreement. Moreover, in-depth interviews were conducted with six experts from medical, legal, and mobile app departments. Each expert was interviewed once to discuss feasible countermeasures and suggestions. Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS version 19;
Toward an Autonomous Aerial Survey and Planning System for Humanitarian Aid and Disaster Response;In this paper we propose an integrated system concept for autonomously surveying and planning emergency response for areas impacted by natural disasters. Referred to as AASAPS-HADR, this system is composed of a network of ground stations and autonomous aerial vehicles interconnected by an ad hoc emergency communication network. The system objectives are three-fold: to provide situational awareness of the evolving disaster event, to generate dispatch and routing plans for emergency vehicles, and to provide continuous communication networks which augment pre-existing communication infrastructure that may have been damaged or destroyed. Lacking development in previous literature, we give particular emphasis to the situational awareness objective of disaster response by proposing an autonomous aerial survey that is tasked with assessing damage to existing road networks, detecting and locating human victims, and providing a cursory assessment of casualty types that can be used to inform medical response priorities. In this paper we provide a high-level system design concept, identify existing AI perception and planning algorithms that most closely suit our purposes as well as technology gaps within those algorithms, and provide initial experimental results for non-contact health monitoring using real-time pose recognition algorithms running on a Nvidia Jetson TX2 mounted on board a quadrotor UAV. Finally we provide technology development recommendations for future phases of the AASAPS-HADR system2DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited..  2020 IEEE.;
Swarm Decision Table and Ensemble Search Methods in Fog Computing Environment: Case of Day-Ahead Prediction of Building Energy Demands Using IoT Sensors;Building energy demand prediction (BEDP) concerns sensing the environment using the Internet of Things (IoT), making seamless decisions and responding and controlling certain devices automatically, intelligently, and quickly. Typically, the BEDP application can be empowered by fog computing where the sensed data are processed at the edge nodes rather than in a central cloud. The challenge is that in this decentralized IoT environment, the machine learning algorithm implemented at the fog node must learn a model from the incoming data accurately and fast. Which type of incremental learning algorithms, combined with traditional or swarm types of stochastic feature selection methods, are more suitable for BEDP? In this article, this topic is investigated in detail by introducing a new incremental learning model, the swarm decision table (SDT) in comparison with the classical decision tree. The simulation experiments using an empirical energy consumption data set that represent a typical IoT-connected BEDP scenario are tested, and the SDT shows superior results in terms of accuracy and time, demonstrating it as a suitable machine learning candidate in a fog computing environment.  2014 IEEE.;Data analytics
A survey on authentication protocols for internet of things [物联网认证协议综述];The large-scale growth of the number of devices in the Internet of Things and the gradual improvement of artificial intelligence technology have brought severe challenges to the security of the Internet of Things. Due to the fact that most devices in Internet of Things have no keyboard input, simple CPU structure, small storage capacity, weak computing, and communication capacity, and due to the difference between the Internet of Things network and computer network, so traditional authentication protocols are not suitable in the Internet of Things environment. Therefore, designing an authentication protocol for the Internet of Things is an essential part of ensuring the security of the Internet of Things. This survey introduces the background of Internet of Things authentication protocols and the relevant research progress in recent years, then analyzes the differences between Internet of Things authentication protocols and traditional computer network authentication protocols. The techniques and mathematical methods commonly used in Internet of Things authentication protocols (e.g. Elliptic curve encryption, Secret sharing, Quantum cryptography and so on) are summarized. The state-of-the-art research results of Internet of Things authentication protocols are described from three aspects: user and device authentication, device and server authentication, device and device authentication. Some future research directions are also discussed.  Journal of Cryptologic Research.All right reserved.;Authentication protocol
Assessing data linkage quality in cohort studies;Background: Linkage of administrative data sources provides an efficient means of collecting detailed data on how individuals interact with cross-sectoral services, society, and the environment. These data can be used to supplement conventional cohort studies, or to create population-level electronic cohorts generated solely from administrative data. However, errors occurring during linkage (false matches/missed matches) can lead to bias in results from linked data. Aim: This paper provides guidance on evaluating linkage quality in cohort studies. Methods: We provide an overview of methods for linkage, describe mechanisms by which linkage error can introduce bias, and draw on real-world examples to demonstrate methods for evaluating linkage quality. Results: Methods for evaluating linkage quality described in this paper provide guidance on (i) estimating linkage error rates, (ii) understanding the mechanisms by which linkage error might bias results, and (iii) information that should be shared between data providers, linkers and users, so that approaches to handling linkage error in analysis can be implemented. Conclusion: Linked administrative data can enhance conventional cohorts and offers the ability to answer questions that require large sample sizes or hard-to-reach populations. Care needs to be taken to evaluate linkage quality in order to provide robust results.  2020,  2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.;administrative data
Ubiquitous intelligent services for vehicular users: A systematic mapping;The space inside a vehicle, which people can enjoy while travelling, is becoming more intelligent due to the technological developments within the automotive industry. This has influenced the increase in new services that are intended to fulfil the needs of vehicle users. This article presents a survey on the provisioning of ubiquitous intelligent services for vehicular users. It also identifies clusters of research interest on this subject. To this end, an evaluation of results from six scientific research databases supports these goals. This process initially identified 37 328 publications;
Review of Machine Learning Algorithms for Health-care Management Medical Big Data Systems;Review of machine learning algorithms for health-care management medical big data systems is conducted in this research. Intelligent diagnosis originated from the introduction of mathematical models as a computer-assisted diagnostic tool in clinical science. Later, various expert systems have gradually appeared. There are many methods for classification in machine learning, including the support vector machine, decision tree algorithm, logical regression, integration method and so on. Among them, support vector machine is the most widely used, it has strong robustness and can then the model nonlinear decision boundary, and there are many optional kernel functions. We review from the 2 major aspects. (1) The input dataset consists of examples, each of which is an input data without an explicit output value. The most studied and widely used method in unsupervised learning tasks is clustering. (2) Semi-supervised learning is to add unlabeled data to the supervised classification algorithm to achieve semi-supervised classification. It is between supervised and unsupervised learning. It belongs to a learning method combining the two. The proposed review will have the efficient support for the further analysis.  2020 IEEE.;Big Data
Artificial Intelligence,  Social Media and Depression. A New Concept of Health-Related Digital Autonomy;The development of artificial intelligence (AI) in medicine raises fundamental ethical issues. As one example, AI systems in the field of mental health successfully detect signs of mental disorders, such as depression, by using data from social media. These AI depression detectors (AIDDs) identify users who are at risk of depression prior to any contact with the healthcare system. The article focuses on the ethical implications of AIDDs regarding affected users’ health-related autonomy. Firstly, it presents the (ethical) discussion of AI in medicine and, specifically, in mental health. Secondly, two models of AIDDs using social media data and different usage scenarios are introduced. Thirdly, the concept of patient autonomy, according to Beauchamp and Childress, is critically discussed. Since this concept does not encompass the specific challenges linked with the digital context of AIDDs in social media sufficiently, the current analysis suggests, finally, an extended concept of health-related digital autonomy.  2020 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.;Diagnosis
Artificial intelligence and multi agent based distributed ledger system for better privacy and security of electronic healthcare records;Background: Application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the use of agent-based systems in the healthcare system have attracted various researchers to improve the efficiency and utility in the Electronic Health Records (EHR). Nowadays, one of the most important and creative developments is the integration of AI and Blockchain that is, Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) to enable better and decentralized governance. Privacy and security is a critical piece in EHR implementation and/or adoption. Health records are updated every time a patient visits a doctor as they contain important information about the health and wellbeing of the patient and describes the history of care received during the past and to date. Therefore, such records are critical to research, hospitals, emergency rooms, healthcare laboratories, and even health insurance providers. Methods: In this article, a platform employing the AI and the use of multi-agent based systems along with the DLT technology for privacy preservation is proposed. The emphasis of security and privacy is highlighted during the process of collecting, managing and distributing EHR data. Results: This article aims to ensure privacy, integrity and security metrics of the electronic health records are met when such copies are not only immutable but also distributed. The findings of this work will help guide the development of further techniques using the combination of AI and multi-agent based systems backed by DLT technology for secure and effective handling EHR data. This proposed architecture uses various AI-based intelligent based agents and blockchain for providing privacy and security in EHR. Future enhancement in this work can be the addition of the biometric based systems for improved security.  Copyright 2020 Alruwaili;Adaptive & self-organizing systems
HOW BLOCKCHAIN HELPS TO ENHANCE HEALTHCARE QUALITY: POTENTIAL IMPACT ON CRISIS SITUATIONS LIKE COVID-19 PANDEMIC;A systematic review of blockchain application in healthcare quality improvement was undertaken in this paper. Google Scholar was used as the search engine. The title of the paper was used as the keyword and the search yielded 56 papers. Most papers were reviews or concepts. The review found that blockchain frameworks and models have been proposed for various healthcare contexts to improve quality, but, they remain concepts or just proof of concepts. None of these frameworks have been actually implemented in real world situations. This research has identified a need for a real world implementation of blockchain frameworks and models to enhance the quality of healthcare. The improvements in quality of healthcare by the implementation of blockchain frameworks and models can have a positive impact in crisis situations (e.g., Covid-19 pandemic).  2020. All Rights Reserved.;Blockchain technology
Computational Decision Support System for ADHD Identification;Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common disorder among children. ADHD often prevails into adulthood, unless proper treatments are facilitated to engage self-regulatory systems. Thus, there is a need for effective and reliable mechanisms for the early identification of ADHD. This paper presents a decision support system for the ADHD identification process. The proposed system uses both functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data and eye movement data. The classification processes contain enhanced pipelines, and consist of pre-processing, feature extraction, and feature selection mechanisms. fMRI data are processed by extracting seed-based correlation features in default mode network (DMN) and eye movement data using aggregated features of fixations and saccades. For the classification using eye movement data, an ensemble model is obtained with 81% overall accuracy. For the fMRI classification, a convolutional neural network (CNN) is used with 82% accuracy for the ADHD identification. Both ensemble models are proved for overfitting avoidance.  2020, Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.;ADHD-Care decision support system (DDS)
Recommender systems in the healthcare domain: state-of-the-art and research issues;Nowadays, a vast amount of clinical data scattered across different sites on the Internet hinders users from finding helpful information for their well-being improvement. Besides, the overload of medical information (e.g., on drugs, medical tests, and treatment suggestions) have brought many difficulties to medical professionals in making patient-oriented decisions. These issues raise the need to apply recommender systems in the healthcare domain to help both, end-users and medical professionals, make more efficient and accurate health-related decisions. In this article, we provide a systematic overview of existing research on healthcare recommender systems. Different from existing related overview papers, our article provides insights into recommendation scenarios and recommendation approaches. Examples thereof are food recommendation, drug recommendation, health status prediction, healthcare service recommendation, and healthcare professional recommendation. Additionally, we develop working examples to give a deep understanding of recommendation algorithms. Finally, we discuss challenges concerning the development of healthcare recommender systems in the future.  2020, The Author(s).;Drug recommendation
Implementation issues of cross border e-government systems and services;Within the context of the European Union member states cross-collaboration for the delivery of seamless e-Government systems, the cross-border strategies have flourished during the last few years across Europe. Specifically, worldwide various innovative programs have been implemented and a considerable number of initiatives took place for upgrading these systems or announcing new ones mostly based on advances on Artificial Intelligence. In addition, the integration of new emerging technologies (Cloud Computing, Big Data and Internet of Things) into existing or designing new systems and services, combined with the use of readymade platforms in Europe of e-Authentication, e-Signature and e-Identification opened up a new perspective on cross-border e-government for security-sensitive areas such as Life Sciences (e-Health, e-Banking, e-Immigration, Smart Agriculture, e-Food etc). Meanwhile, the variety and complexity of e-government initiatives implies the existence of a wide range of challenges and barriers to its implementation and management. This paper mainly focuses on identifying and overcoming the implementation challenges of cross-border e-government systems as European governments must make efforts to fill in the gaps and barriers across several categories, including organizational, semantic, technical, policy and regulation issues, such as lack of government integration, privacy, heterogeneous national systems and lack of shared standards and compatible infrastructure among EU countries. Copyright  2020 for this paper by its authors.;Authentication
A state-of-the-art review on mobile robotics tasks using artificial intelligence and visual data;Nowadays, the field of mobile robotics has experienced an important evolution and these robots are more commonly proposed to solve different tasks autonomously. The use of visual sensors has played an important role in mobile robotics tasks during the past few years due to the advances in computer vision hardware and algorithms. It is worth remarking the use of AI tools to solve a variety of problems in mobile robotics based on the use of images either as the only source of information or combining them with other sensors such as laser or GPS. The improvement of the autonomy of mobile robots has attracted the attention of the scientific community. A considerable amount of works have been proposed over the past few years, leading to an extensive variety of approaches. Building a robust model of the environment (mapping), estimating the position within the model (localization) and controlling the movement of the robot from one place to another (navigation) are important abilities that any mobile robot must have. Considering this, this review focuses on analyzing these problems;
Application of Artificial Intelligence Techniques for the Estimation of Basal Insulin in Patients with Type i Diabetes;Artificial intelligence techniques have been positioned in the resolution of problems in various areas of healthcare. Clinical decision support systems developed from this technology have optimized the healthcare of patients with chronic diseases through mobile applications. In this study, several models based on this methodology have been developed to calculate the basal insulin dose in patients with type I diabetes using subcutaneous insulin infusion pumps. Methods. A pilot experimental study was performed with data from 56 patients with type 1 diabetes who used insulin infusion pumps and underwent continuous glucose monitoring. Several models based on artificial intelligence techniques were developed to analyze glycemic patterns based on continuous glucose monitoring and clinical variables in order to estimate the basal insulin dose. We used neural networks (NNs), Bayesian networks (BNs), support vector machines (SVMs), and random forests (RF). We then evaluated the agreement between predicted and actual values using several statistical error measurements: mean absolute error (MAE), mean square error (MSE), root-mean-square error (RMSE), Pearson's correlation coefficient (R), and determination coefficient (R2). Results. Twenty-four different models were obtained, one for each hour of the day, with each chosen technique. Correlation coefficients obtained with RF, SVMs, NNs, and BNs were 0.9999, 0.9921, 0.0303, and 0.7754, respectively. The error increased between 06:00 and 07:00 and between 13:00 and 17:00. Conclusions. The performance of the RF technique was excellent and got very close to the actual values. Intelligence techniques could be used to predict basal insulin dose. However, it is necessary to explore the validity of the results and select the target population. Models that allow for more accurate levels of prediction should be further explored.  2020 Guillermo Edinson Guzman Gómez et al.;
Advanced centralized and distributed SVM models over different IoT levels for edge layer intelligence and control;In this era, internet-of-things (IoT) deal with billions of edge devices potentially connected to each other. Maximum applications built on these edge devices generate a massive amount of online data and also require real-time computation and decision making with low latency (e.g., robotics/ drones, self-driving cars, smart IoT, electronics/ wearable devices). To suffice the requirement, the future generation intelligent edge devices need to be capable of computing complex machine learning algorithms on live data in real-time. Considering different layers of IoT and distributed computing concept, this paper suggests three different operational models where the ML algorithm will be executed in a distributed manner between the edge and cloud layer of IoT so that the edge node can take a decision in real-time. The three models are;
Making Sense of Violence Risk Predictions Using Clinical Notes;Violence risk assessment in psychiatric institutions enables interventions to avoid violence incidents. Clinical notes written by practitioners and available in electronic health records (EHR) are valuable resources that are seldom used to their full potential. Previous studies have attempted to assess violence risk in psychiatric patients using such notes, with acceptable performance. However, they do not explain why classification works and how it can be improved. We explore two methods to better understand the quality of a classifier in the context of clinical note analysis: random forests using topic models, and choice of evaluation metric. These methods allow us to understand both our data and our methodology more profoundly, setting up the groundwork for improved models that build upon this understanding. This is particularly important when it comes to the generalizability of evaluated classifiers to new data, a trustworthiness problem that is of great interest due to the increased availability of new data in electronic format.  2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Document classification
Definition and evaluation of data quality: User-oriented data object-driven approach to data quality assessment;Data quality issue has emerged since the end of the 60’s, however, more than 50 years later, it remains unresolved and is still current, mainly due the popularity of data and open data. The paper proposes a data object-driven approach to data quality evaluation. This user-oriented solution is based on 3 main components: data object, data quality specification and the process of data quality measuring. These components are defined by 3 graphical DSLs, that are easy enough even for non-IT experts. The approach ensures data quality analysis depending on the use-case. Developed approach allows analysing quality of “third-party” data. The proposed solution is applied to open data sets. The result of approbation of the proposed approach demonstrated that open data have numerous data quality issues. There are also underlined common data quality problems detected not only in Latvian open data but also in open data of 3 European countries.  2020 Fundacao Getulio Vargas. All rights reserved.;Data object
Smarter Smart Contracts: Efficient Consent Management in Health Data Sharing;The healthcare industry faces serious problems in data fragmentation and insufficient data sharing between patients, healthcare service providers and medical researchers. At the same time, patients’ privacy must be protected, and patients should have authority over who can access their data. Researchers have proposed blockchain-based solutions to health data sharing, using blockchain for consent management. However, the implementation of the smart contracts that underpin these solutions has not been studied in detail. In this paper, we develop a blockchain-based framework for consent management in interorganizational health data sharing. We study the design of smart contracts that support the operation of our framework and evaluate its efficiency based on the execution costs on Ethereum. Our design improves on those previously proposed, lowering the computational costs of the framework significantly. This allows the framework to operate at scale and is more feasible for widespread adoption. Additionally, we introduce a novel contract that supports searching for patients in the framework that match certain criteria. This feature would be useful to medical researchers looking to obtain patient data.  2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Blockchain
Comparison of methods for correcting outliers in ecg-based biometric identification;The aim of this paper is to compare the efficiency of various outlier correction methods for ECG signal processing in biometric applications. The main idea is to correct anomalies in various segments of ECG waveform rather than skipping a corrupted ECG heartbeat in order to achieve better statistics. Experiments were performed using a self-collected Lviv Biometric Dataset. This database contains over 1400 records for 95 unique persons. The baseline identification accuracy without any correction is around 86%. After applying the outlier correction the results were improved up to 98% for autoencoder based algorithms and up to 97.1% for sliding Euclidean window. Adding outlier correction stage in the biometric identification process results in increased processing time (up to 20%), however, it is not critical in the most use-cases.  2020 Polish Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.;Autoencoders
Blockchain-Based Federated Learning in Medicine;Worldwide epidemic events have confirmed the need for medical data processing tools while bringing issues of data privacy, transparency and usage consent to the front. Federated Learning and the blockchain are two technologies that tackle these challenges and have been shown to be beneficial in medical contexts where data are often distributed and coming from different sources. In this paper we propose to integrate these two technologies for the first time in a medical setting. In particular, we propose a implementation of a coordinating server for a federated learning algorithm to share information for improved predictions while ensuring data transparency and usage consent. We illustrate the approach with a prediction decision support tool applied to a diabetes data-set. The particular challenges of the medical contexts are detailed and a prototype implementation is presented to validate the solution.  2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;
Use of point-of-care technologies for the management of the COVID-19 pandemic in Colombia [Uso de tecnologías en el lugar de atención para el manejo de la pandemia por COVID-19 en Colombia];Objective. To propose a health care model that integrates point-of-care technologies and artificial intelligence for the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. Methods. A theoretical model was used in which one million people accessed the mobile application CoronApp-Colombia, which collects personal data, signs, symptoms and epidemiological links compatible with COVID-19. With the information from the app artificial intelligence techniques (data science) were applied in a virtual situation room. Results. Users compatible with COVID-19 were prioritized and subjected to a rapid diagnostic test for anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Screening with the rapid diagnostic test would allow detection of sero-reactive individuals, for whom diagnostic confirmation would be carried out using molecular biology (PCR). Information from positive cases confirmed by PCR would be re-screened using artificial intelligence and spatial statistical techniques to identify geographical foci of infection. These foci could be actively searched for contacts with positive index cases and the diagnostic route would be followed again using the rapid diagnostic test and PCR. Conclusion. This model may be useful for countries in the region with weak or absent technological platforms for PCR diagnosis to maximize existing resources, estimate the epidemiological burden of COVID-19 (infection, morbidity, mortality and lethality) and implement containment, mitigation and control plans according to their needs.  2020 Pan American Health Organization. All rights reserved.;Artificial intelligence
Smart Contract-Based Cross-Domain Authentication and Key Agreement System for Heterogeneous Wireless Networks;Nowadays, it is still a major challenge to design a secure cross-domain authentication protocol for heterogeneous wireless networks with different security parameters. As a new technology, blockchain has attracted people's attention because of its tamper-proof and decentralized characteristics. In this paper, we propose a cross-domain authentication and key agreement system based on smart contract of blockchains. Public keys of the nodes are managed using the smart contracts, and the system parameters are confirmed by contract query. On this basis, a cross-domain authentication and key agreement protocol is designed. In this protocol, roaming users can select temporary authentication parameters according to the system parameters of the roaming domain to complete authentication and key agreement, and users are anonymous in the process. Security of the protocol is demonstrated under the CK model, and two formal analysis tools are used to further analyze the protocol. Since the protocol does not have complex cryptographic operations and certificate verification, it has lower computational and communication overhead.  2020 Guangsong Li et al.;
Patients transferred within a telestroke network for large-vessel occlusion;Introduction: In a telestroke network, patients at a referring hospital (RH) with large-vessel occlusion (LVO) are transferred to a comprehensive stroke centre (CSC) for endovascular thrombectomy (EVT). However, a significant number of patients do not ultimately undergo thrombectomy after CSC arrival. Methods: Within a 17-hospital telestroke network, we retrospectively analysed patients with suspected or confirmed LVO transferred to a CSC, and characterized the reasons why these patients did not undergo EVT based on the 2019 American Heart Association guidelines. Results: Of 400 patients transferred to our hub, 68 (17%) were based on vascular imaging at RH. Time from RH arrival to neuroimaging was significantly longer in patients that underwent both computed tomography (CT) and CT angiography of the brain and neck compared to only CT of the brain (53 vs 13 minutes, p < 0.05). Accuracy of anterior circulation LVO (ACLVO) detection based on clinical suspicion was 62% (205 of 332 patients). Among 234 ACLVO patients, overall, 175 (74%) (early window group: 123 (73%) patients and late window group: 52 (80%) patients) met at least one EVT ineligibility criterion. The reasons for EVT ineligibility varied from large core infarct (aspects <6 or core volume >70 cc on perfusion imaging in late window), low National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (<6), distal occlusion, and poor baseline modified Rankin Scale score (>1). Discussion: Instituting rapid acquisition and interpretation of vascular imaging at RHs for LVO detection and establishing benchmarks for door to vascular imaging is urgently needed for RHs.  The Author(s) 2020.;CTA of the brain
Upshot of blockchain technology: A study;The blockchain technology is at a stage where its threshold capabilities have not yet been recognized. Various technologies emerge as the technological era progresses but one technology that is at its core roots and has the potential to disrupt many industries is blockchain. This technology has the potential to create an unimaginable difference in our lives. The blockchain technology is the answer and various questions can be framed across it. It has the potential to change the way the centralized systems work and can lead to an unimaginable futuristic technological advancement.  The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd 2020.;Blockchain
Anonymisation and compliance to protection data: Impacts and challenges into big data;Nowadays, in the age of Big Data, we see a growing concern about privacy. Different countries have enacted laws and guidelines to ensure better use of data, especially personal data. Both the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the EU and the Brazilian General Data Protection Law (LGPD) outline anonymisation techniques as a tool to ensure the safe use of such data. However, the expectations placed on this tool must be reconsidered according to the risks and limits of its use. We discussed whether anonymity used exclusively can meet the demands of Big Data and, at the same time, the demands of privacy and security. We have concluded that, albeit anonymised, the massive use of data must respect good governance practices to preserve personal privacy. In this sense, we point out some guidelines for the use of anonymised data in the context of Big Data. Copyright  2020 by SCITEPRESS - Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved.;Anonymisation
Smart belt design by naïve bayes classifier for standard industrial protection equipment integration;One of the main objectives of various companies between the industrial sector is the reduc-tion of accidents, ranging from minor injuries to the death of workers. In order to prevent previously affected hazards, the fusion of Internet of Things and Industry 4.0 technologies has been chosen, being key tools for the detection and notification of personnel of anomalies detected in the environment, generating Industrial Protection Equipment (PPE) with the ability to predict, detect and report anomalies in the environment. This article proposes the design of a belt capable of being integrated into standard industrial protection equip-ment, this component being able to detect the operator’s condition from the presence of falls thereof, detection of noise levels, gas detection Toxic and notifications to the worker or nearby personnel of the anomaly detected. The information collected is processed by Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques through Cloud Computing, highlighting during the investi-gation process the Naïve Bayes classifier to detect real risk situations in risk environments, alerting with 90% accuracy about different situations that can put the life of users at risk.  2020 International Journal of Artificial Intelligence.;Artificial Intelligence
A Comprehensive Framework of Usability Issues Related to the Wearable Devices;Wearable devices have the potential to be used for monitoring, augmenting, assisting, delivering content, and tracking in both individual and organizational contexts. Despite this potential, previous studies indicate that the abandonment rate is quite high relative to the usage rate due to usability factors. This chapter provides a comprehensive systematic literature review on the usability issues related to wearable devices, as well as recommendations for overcoming the identified problems. It also investigates and presents a survey of the existing usability evaluation methods used to identify and evaluate the usability of wearable devices, including their strengths and limitations. As such, we present a categorization framework that gives an overview of the overall usability issues that act as the barriers to user adoption and a summary of which types of usability issues are associated with which type of device category. The chapter has the potential to inform and assist researchers, practitioners, and application developers as they work toward developing, implementing, and evaluating wearable devices and their associated interfaces, and this, in turn, may assist with sustained engagement among users.  2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;AR
Predicting Systolic Blood Pressure in Real-Time Using Streaming Data and Deep Learning;High systolic blood pressure causes many problems, including stroke, brain attack, and others. Therefore, examining blood pressure and discovering issues related to it at the right time can help prevent the occurrence of health problems. Nowadays, health-based data brings a new dimension to healthcare by exploiting the real-time patients’ data to early detect systolic blood pressure (SBP). Furthermore, technologies typically associated with smart and real-time data processing add value in the healthcaredomain, including artificial intelligence, data analytic technologies, and stream processing technologies. Thus, this paper introduces a systolic blood pressure prediction system that can predict SBP in real-time and, therefore, can avoid health problems that may stem from sudden high blood pressure. The proposed system works through two components, namely, developing an offline model and an online prediction pipeline. The aim of developing an offline model module is to develop the model using investigate different deep learning models to achieve the smallest root mean square error. It has been developed using Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), Bidirectional Short-Term Memory (BI-LSTM), Gated Recurrent Units (GRU) models andMedical Information Mart for Intensive Care (MIMC II) SBP time-series dataset. The online prediction pipeline module is using Apache Kafka and Apache Spark to predict the near future of SBP in real-time using the best deep learning model and SBP streaming time-series data. The experimental results indicate that the BI-LSTM model has achieved the best performance using three hidden layers, and it is used to predict the near future of SBP in real-time.  2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;Apache Kafka and Apache Spark
Detecting congestive heart failure by extracting multimodal features with synthetic minority oversampling technique (SMOTE) for imbalanced data using robust machine learning techniques;The incidence of congestive heart failure (CHF) is approximately 10 per 1000 for Americans over the age of 65 years. The dynamics of CHF are highly complex, nonlinear, and temporal dynamics. Based on these characteristics, we extracted multimodal features from congestive heart failure (CHF) and normal sinus rhythm (NSR) signals. We performed the synthetic minority over-sampling technique (SMOTE) to increase the number of CHF subjects to balance our train data. The classification between these subjects with original data and SMOTE data was performed using machine learning classifiers such as classification and regression tree (CART), support vector machine linear (SVM-L), Naïve Bayes, neural network, and ensemble classifiers such as random forest (RF), XG boost, averaged neural network (AVNNET). With the original data, the highest performance was obtained using SVM-L with accuracy (94.28%), sensitivity (84.61%), specificity (100%), p-value (0.0002), AUC (0.9605) with 95% CI: 0.9006-1.00. By applying the SMOET, the highest performance was obtained with SVM-L with accuracy (97.14%), sensitivity (92.30%), specificity (100%), p-value (7.99e-06), AUC (0.9650) with 95% CI: 0.8945–1.00. The results reveal that proposed approach with SMOTE improved the detection performance which can be very effective and computationally efficient tool for automatic detection of congestive heart failure patients.  2020 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.;Congestive heart failure
Detection of Health Abnormality Considering Latent Factors Inducing a Disease;Underlying latent factors may cause a person to feel unwell. As the influence of the latent factors increases, the person will become sick. It is difficult to directly measure the influence of latent factors on risk degrees. However, early symptoms of a disease may affect vital signs such as body temperature and blood pressure, which may be a result of the influence of the latent factors. Deep learning is often used to predict the onset of a disease owing to its high accuracy. However, the reliability of this method is limited because of its characteristics of a black-box model. In this study, we propose a new approach to detect health abnormality. We regard the degree of influence of latent factors as the risk of disease and detect health abnormality before the onset of the disease. In our approach, we used a combination of Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) and Hidden Markov Model (HMM). First, in SEM, a domain model was created, and the factor score was estimated based on the relationship between latent factors and the explicit variables influenced by the factors. Thereafter, risk degrees were quantified with HMM using the estimated factor scores, and abnormality was identified in terms of risk degree. Finally, our proposed method was compared with three baselines: PCA (principal component analysis)-based approach, deep learning, and no-degree estimation methods. The average recall of our method was 98.75%, almost the same as the baselines, and false positive rate (FPR) was 0.186%, lower than the baselines. In the five-fold cross-validation comparing with no-degree estimation method, the average accuracy and recall of our method were 99.7% and 98.3% respectively, and FPR was 0.045%, all much better than the baseline. Moreover, our approach can make the process of obtaining the result visible and help detect abnormality sensitively by setting the threshold according to the risk degree, which can contribute to early detection of a disease and improve the reliability of abnormality detection as well.  2013 IEEE.;Abnormality detection
Scalable architecture,  storage and visualization approaches for time series analysis systems;In order to adapt to the recent phenomenon of exponential growth of time series data sets in both academic and commercial environments, and with the goal of deriving valuable knowledge from this data, a multitude of analysis software tools have been developed to allow groups of collaborating researchers to find and annotate meaningful behavioral patterns. However, these tools commonly lack appropriate mechanisms to handle massive time series data sets of high cardinality, as well as suitable visual encodings for annotated data. In this paper we conduct a comparative study of architectural, persistence and visualization methods that can enable these analysis tools to scale with a continuously-growing data set and handle intense workloads of concurrent traffic. We implement these approaches within a web platform, integrated with authentication, versioning, and locking mechanisms that prevent overlapping contributions or unsanctioned changes. Additionally, we measure the performance of a set of databases when writing and reading varying amounts of series data points, as well as the performance of different architectural models at scale.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.;Annotation systems;" Time series databases distributed systems""";
An Effective Block-Chain Based Authentication Technique for Cloud Based IoT;Nowadays, cloud computing services and applications have created plenty of storage space to meet the demand and the utility for human life. However, these cloud services face serious security challenges against various attacks. Cloud computing services rely primarily on confidential data generated by devices connected to cloud account-specific personal information. These devices typically use security in an ID-based encryption scheme. The Identity-Encryption Technique (IDET) technique is an essential public cryptosystem that uses a user’s identity information email or IP address. IDET uses signature authentication used in public-key encryption or public key infrastructure (PKI) instead of digital keys. The PKI uses a password for public key infrastructure (PKI) authentication. In contrast, the proposed model, an ID-based Block-chain Authority (IDBA) no need to maintain hash for authentication. Getting rid of Key management issues and avoiding a secure channel at the key exchange point is a functional problem.  2020, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.;and Public-Key Infrastructure
Security challenges in fog and iot,  blockchain technology and cell tree solutions: A review;As the IoT is moving out of its early stages, it is emerging as an area of future internet. The evolving communication paradigm among cloud servers, Fog nodes and IoT devices are establishing a multilevel communication infrastructure. Fog provides a platform for IoT along with other services like networking, storage and computing. With the tremendous expansion of IoT, security threats also arise. These security hazards cannot be addressed by mere dependence on cloud model. In this paper we present an overview of security landscape of Fog computing, challenges, and, existing solutions. We outline major authentication issues in IoT, map their existing solutions and further tabulate Fog and IoT security loopholes. Furthermore this paper presents Blockchain, a decentralized distributed technology as one of the solutions for authentication issues in IoT. We tried to discuss the strength of Blockchain technology, work done in this field, its adoption in COVID-19 fight and tabulate various challenges in Blockchain technology. At last we present the Cell Tree architecture as another solution to address some of the security issues in IoT, outlined its advantages over Blockchain technology and tabulated some future course to stir some attempts in this area.  2020 SCPE.;Attribute based encryption (ABE)
The Impact of User Diversity on the Acceptance of mHealth for Aftercare - Identifying the User Types ‘Assistance Seekers’ and ‘Privacy Supporters’;All around the world, aging societies put pressure on healthcare systems. Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) can offer support for infirm, chronically ill, and older adults in prevention, therapy, and the aftercare of surgery. For that purpose, mHealth apps enhance the quality of patients’ lives after surgery thereby offering relieve to the healthcare system. The multi-method approach applied in this study addresses the concerns and wishes that come with the introduction of new technologies. In a qualitative prestudy (n = 17), wishes and requirements that are associated with the use of mHealth apps in aftercare were identified. Key elements turned out to be privacy - especially who has access to the data like emergency calls -, desired type of support, and the kind of assistance in interacting with mHealth apps. In the subsequent quantitative main study (n = 180) these key elements were operationalized in a Choice Based Conjoint (CBC) experiment, additionally focusing on user factors. The results show that the most important aspect is data access, followed by the kind of offered assistance, and finally the features. Moreover, using a Latent Class Analysis, two user groups were detected: Privacy Supporters and Assistance Seekers. Both groups differed in the perceived importance of privacy compared to the kind of assistance offered when introducing the technology. Our results provide practical recommendations for the future roll-out of mHealth apps in aftercare with a special focus on user diversity.  2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Acceptance
GDPR Compliance Verification in Internet of Things;Data privacy in Internet of Things (IoT) applications remains a major concern of regulation bodies. The introduction of the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) enables users to control how their data is accessed and processed, requiring consent from users before any data manipulation is carried out on their (personal) data by smart devices or cloud-hosted services. Blockchains provide the benefits of a distributed and immutable ledger recording digital transactions across a global network of peer nodes. Blockchain support for tracking of operations carried out by an IoT-based system provides greater confidence to a user that the IoT device is not infringing user privacy (as the Blockchain can be audited to verify which operation was carried out, by which actor). A formal model (following the privacy-by-design approach) is proposed for supporting GDPR compliance checking for smart devices. The privacy requirements of such applications are related to GDPR obligations of device (and software systems) operators (such as user consent, data protection, right to forget etc). Three smart contracts are proposed as a practical solution to support automated verification of operations carried out by devices on user data, in accordance with GDPR rules. We evaluate the performance and scalability costs of our approach using a Blockchain test network.  2013 IEEE.;Blockchain-based auditing
A Systematic Study on the Recommender Systems in the E-Commerce;Electronic commerce or e-commerce includes the service and good exchange through electronic support like the Internet. It plays a crucial role in today's business and users' experience. Also, e-commerce platforms produce a vast amount of information. So, Recommender Systems (RSs) are a solution to overcome the information overload problem. They provide personalized recommendations to improve user satisfaction. The present article illustrates a comprehensive and Systematic Literature Review (SLR) regarding the papers published in the field of e-commerce recommender systems. We reviewed the selected papers to identify the gaps and significant issues of the RSs' traditional methods, which guide the researchers to do future work. So, we provided the traditional techniques, challenges, and open issues concerning traditional methods of the field of review based on the selected papers. This review includes five categories of the RSs' algorithms, including Content-Based Filtering (CBF), Collaborative Filtering (CF), Demographic-Based Filtering (DBF), hybrid filtering, and Knowledge-Based Filtering (KBF). Also, the salient points of each selected paper are briefly reported. The publication time of the selected papers ranged from 2008 to 2019. Also, we provided a comparison table of important issues of the selected papers as well as the tables of advantages and disadvantages. Moreover, we provided a comparative table of metrics and review issues for the selected papers. And finally, the conclusions can, to a great extent, provide valuable guidelines for future studies.  2013 IEEE.;electronic commerce
Hybrid and Secure E-Health Data Sharing Architecture in Multi-Clouds Environment;Healthcare is among the sectors showing efforts in adopting cloud computing to its services considering the provided cost reduction and healthcare process efficiency. However, outsourcing patient’s sensitive data increases the concerns regarding security, privacy, and integrity of healthcare data. Therefore, there is a need for building a trust relationship between patients and e-health systems. In this paper, we propose a privacy-preserving framework, called Hybrid and Secure Data Sharing Architecture (HSDSA), to secure data storage in e-health systems. Our approach improves security in healthcare by maintaining the privacy and confidentiality of sensitive data and preventing threats. In fact, in the upload phase, Multi-cloud environment is used to store Rivest–Shamir–Adleman (RSA) encrypted medical records. We adopt a Shamir’s secret sharing approach for the distribution of shares to different independent cloud providers. In the retrieval phase, the reconstruction operation is based on the (t, n) strategy. To check the requester identity and to prove the hash possession, we used a zero-knowledge cryptography algorithm, namely the Schnorr algorithm. The patient has a total control over the generation and management of the decryption keys using Diffie-Hellman algorithm without relying on a trusted authority.  2020, The Author(s).;Data encryption
Trust Execution Environment and Multi-party Computation for Blockchain e-Health Systems;Blockchain is a rich and attractive domain for researchers since it is independent of “third party” such as Bank or government. This “open” phenomenon does not respect all the security criteria such as private data protection and confidentiality;
A Novel Feature Matching Ranked Search Mechanism over Encrypted Cloud Data;Encrypted search technology has been studied extensively in recent years. With more and more information being stored in cloud, creating indexes with independent keywords has resulted in enormous storage cost and low search accuracy, which has become an urgent problem to be solved. Thus, in this paper, we propose a new feature matching ranked search mechanism (FMRSM) for encrypted cloud data. This mechanism uses feature score algorithm (FSA) to create indexes, which allows multi-keywords which are extracted from a document as a feature to be mapped to one dimension of the index. Thus, the storage cost of indexes can be reduced and the efficiency of encryption can be improved. Moreover, FMRSM uses a matching score algorithm (MSA) in generating trapdoor process. With the help of FSA, the matching score algorithm can rank the search results according to the type of match and the number of matching keywords, and therefore it is able to return results with higher ranking accuracy. Comprehensive analysis prove that our mechanism is more feasible and effective.  2013 IEEE.;Encrypted search
A CNN-RBPNN Model with Feature Knowledge Embedding and its Application to Time-Varying Signal Classification;A novel technique, combining the feature extraction mechanisms of a convolutional neural network (CNN) with the classification method of a radial basis probability neural network (RBPNN), is proposed for small sample set modeling and feature knowledge embedding in multi-channel time-varying signal classification. This CNN-RBPNN consists of a signal input layer, signal feature parallel extraction and integration units, and an RBPNN classifier. Each channel signal in a feature extraction unit corresponds to a 1D CNN. The extracted features are represented as feature vectors, and these vectors constitute a comprehensive feature matrix. The RBPNN classifier was designed using signal feature embedding mechanism based on radial basis kernels and the property of combining pattern subclasses into pattern classes to form complex class boundaries. A dynamic clustering algorithm was used to divide each pattern class sample into several subclasses. Typical signal samples in each pattern subclass were designated as kernel centers, in order to achieve signal categories features embedding. This process was also used to determine the number of nodes in the RBPN layer. The RBPN layer outputs were selectively summed in the pattern layer according to kernel center category, which can generate irregular class boundaries, reducing the overlap among different pattern class boundary. The proposed CNN-RBPNN replaces the full-connection layer and classifier unit of conventional CNN with RBPNN, which can extract and represent signals distribution features and structural properties, implement structural and data constraints. This can reduce the structural risks of small sample set modeling. In this study, the properties of CNN-RBPNN are analyzed and an integrated learning algorithm is proposed. An experiment was conducted using 12-lead ECG signals in a seven-classification in the case of small sample set. Results demonstrated that, the correct recognition rate is 5.7% higher than other methods in the experiment, the performance evaluation index also showed significant improvement.  2013 IEEE.;CNN feature extraction
A study on fog computing architectures and energy consumption approaches regarding qos requirements;In the Internet of Things (IoT) paradigm, data is gathered for treatment from locals, machines, vehicles, etc. Cloud computing is providing suitable hardware and software for data processing. Thus, the integration of IoT with cloud capabilities offers several benefits for many applications. However, challenges persist for some use-cases like delay-sensitive services due to the huge amount of information collected by IoT devices and to be processed by cloud servers. Fog computing is expected to overcome several limits and challenges in cloud computing concerning the Quality of Service (QoS) requirements like latency, bandwidth and location awareness. Nevertheless, researchers still have to deal with several issues namely the architectural level and the energetic aspect. In this paper, we investigate fog system architectures and energy consumption in literature, while considering QoS requirements in the synthesis. A system model is then introduced with a potential solution for QoS management for fog computing environment.  2020 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.;Application-oriented architecture
Robust Multimodal Heartbeat Detection Using Hybrid Neural Networks;Many arrhythmia datasets are multimodal due to the simultaneous collection of physiological signals of a subject. These datasets frequently have missing modalities or missing block-wise data, a characteristic that various recent applications of neural networks fail to consider. Most arrhythmic detection models only use electrocardiogram and blood pressure recordings. Unconsidered physiological signals may be strongly correlated with other modalities despite having missing data. To improve robustness and accuracy of heartbeat detection, all available modalities should be considered in multimodal arrhythmia datasets. Several hybrid neural networks are proposed to robustly analyze heartbeats by considering every available physiological signal. These networks combine elements from convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, and a deep learning architecture. This enables researchers to analyze every signal of subjects while the set of signals collected among subjects may differ. The proposed hybrid neural networks provide more robust results in heartbeat detection when utilizing missing data modalities.  2013 IEEE.;deep learning
A NLG framework for user tailoring and profiling in healthcare;Communication in healthcare can improve therapy adherence and patient engagement. Research into healthcare-oriented Natural Language Generation (NLG) systems suggests that tailoring to user profile can improve overall effectiveness. However lots of systems adopts a single or small group of user profiles, thus overlooking that user subsets may have different needs and that these could evolve over time. In this paper we conceptualize a framework that can produce customised healthcare reports by extracting meaningful data insights and producing a final text which varies in content and terminology according to the user profile and traits. The dietary domain will be used to show a working example. Copyright  2020 for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).;Clustering
W-Trans: A Weighted Transition Matrix Learning Algorithm for the Sensor-Based Human Activity Recognition;The sensor-based human activity recognition has been wildly applied in behavior tracking, health monitoring, indoor localization etc. Using activity continuity to assist activity recognition is an important research issue, in which the activity transition matrix which describes the activity transformation in real scenarios is the most important parameter. Aiming at the problem that the current classic transition matrix learning algorithm cannot fuse weights of sample classification results, a weighted transition matrix learning algorithm is proposed in this paper. First, the basic definitions of an improved Hidden Markov Model (HMM) which fuses weights of classification results are given. Then, the recursive formula of transition matrix learning is derived, and the learning algorithm W-Trans is put forward. Finally, the proposed algorithm is simulated with the public data sets. The evaluation results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms the classical Baum-Welch algorithm under evaluation metrics of both the cosine similarity and the euler distance. By applying W-Trans to current activity recognition post-process methods, the advantage of our method is verified.  2013 IEEE.;Activity recognition
Analysis of congestion control mechanism for IOT;In IoT (Internet of Things) network, a big amount of data is generated within a period of time. Hence it is required to critically consider and design a load balancing protocol. In this paper we survey different congestion control mechanisms designed for IoT based network, classified in two major categories i.e. protocol dependent and performing offloading. These classifications are based on technique used to balance load and avoid congestion respectively. Protocol dependent approach is further classified as application layer protocol (CoAP) or network layer (RPL) protocol. These techniques improvise CoAP and RPL protocols to handle congestion issues. Offloading dependent approach covers different methods to balance the load evenly within a network. This analysis also includes the major concerns and the focus of different techniques to achieve congestion control within an IoT network.  2020 IEEE.;CoAP
Advanced information technologies and techniques for healthcare digital transformation and adoption in ophthalmology;Acquiring and processing a large number of, including different formats, patient data, and enhanced communication with patients are roles of advanced information technologies, and techniques that can be adopted in healthcare digital transformation. The aim of this chapter is to contribute in specific interdisciplinary research that was narrowed to one branch of medicine, ophthalmology. Our research consisted of several stages such as literature investigation, thematic analysis, classification, questionnaire, and interview. In central part of the research we dealt with selected use cases and schematic proposals of multi-perspective architecture in digital transformation for ophthalmology. Because some stages of our research were already published that in this chapter we communicate in details only the results of literature investigation and questionnaire. At the stage of literature investigation we examined five preselected searchable database sources and via questionnaire we scanned the awareness and opinions of the members from Slovak Ophthalmological Society.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.;
Dataset Management Using Metadata;Correct data analysis depends on good quality data, and that means having data in a form that can be consistently queried, profiled and managed, easily and repeatedly. The healthcare sector, in particular the growing field of personalised medicine, has some of the most complex and diverse datasets. However, they are mostly heterogeneous datasets, and not always easy to merge into a form that is useful for the data scientists and researchers that are attempting to carry out data analysis. This paper describes key factors needed to automate the process of integrating such datasets, it is based upon experience working with standards-compliant metadata registries in precision medicine.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.;
Private Hospital Workflow Optimization via Secure k-Means Clustering;Optimizing the workflow of a complex organization such as a hospital is a difficult task. An accurate option is to use a real-time locating system to track locations of both patients and staff. However, privacy regulations forbid hospital management to assess location data of their staff members. In this exploratory work, we propose a secure solution to analyze the joined location data of patients and staff, by means of an innovative cryptographic technique called Secure Multi-Party Computation, in which an additional entity that the staff members can trust, such as a labour union, takes care of the staff data. The hospital, owning location data of patients, and the labour union perform a two-party protocol, in which they securely cluster the staff members by means of the frequency of their patient facing times. We describe the secure solution in detail, and evaluate the performance of our proof-of-concept. This work thus demonstrates the feasibility of secure multi-party clustering in this setting.  2019, The Author(s).;Clustering
An organization-friendly blockchain system;Transaction privacy protection has always been the subject of interest in blockchain-based transaction system. The one-time public key method commonly used in current system does not perfectly achieve this function. Other technologies such as Mixcoin and zk-SNARKs also confront with some centralization and efficiency drawbacks. In this paper, we propose a new organization-level privacy protection mechanism for blockchain-based transaction system, which realizes the transformation of transactions between users to transactions between organizations, and further achieves a balance between privacy protection and security supervision. Specifically, we formalize the definition of this system architecture and give its generic construction and concrete implementation through the basic cryptography modules such as digital signature, public key encryption, group signature, zero-knowledge proof and range proof of committed value. Analysis and experiment results show that our system satisfies three important properties of protocol security, transaction privacy and identity traceability, which makes it suitable for various trading scenarios, especially for public-to-public transactions.  2019 Elsevier Ltd;Blockchain
Data Labeling Scheme for Bed Position Classification;This study proposes a data labelling scheme for bed position classification task. The labelling scheme provides a set of bed position for the purpose of preventing the bed fall and bedsore injuries which seriously imperil the aging people health. Most of the elderly fall down when they attempt to get out of bed with unassisted bed exit. Also, there is a high possibility of rolling out of bed when an elderly lies close to the edge of the bed. In addition, a bedridden person, who cannot reposition by him/herself, has a high risk of bedsores. Repositioning in every two hours alleviates the prolonged pressure over on the body. We collected the data from a specific set of bed sensor and classified the signal into five positions on the bed, which are off-bed, sitting, lying center, lying left, and lying right. These five positions are the fundamental information for developing a model to capture the movement of the elderly on the bed. The precaution strategy is then able to be designed for the bed fall and bedsore prevention. The data of the five different positions are manually annotated by observing the synchronized video through a specially designed workbench. The combination of the positions of off-bed, sitting, and lying is used to detect a bed exit situation, and the combination of the positions in the lying state, i.e. lying center, lying left, and lying right, is used to detect the rolling out of bed situation. Moreover, to notify for reposition assisting in the bedridden, the three lying positions are used to calculate the time of the abiding position.  2020 The authors and IOS Press. All rights reserved.;Bed position classification
Research on differential privacy for medical health big data processing;As big data, medical digitalization, and wearable devices continue to evolve, these technologies are driving the advancement of clinical medicine, genomics, and wearable health while also posing a risk of privacy breaches. For the disclosure of medical privacy issues, some methods and systems combining differential privacy protection applied in the clinical, genomic and wearable fields have been summarized, analyzed and compared. Finally, through the investigation and research, the assumptions and prospects for future research hotspots are given.  2019 IEEE.;Big data
Digital Health: what is changing for our understanding of health? [Digitale Gesundheit: Was ändert sich für den Gesundheitsbegriff?];In this paper, I discuss how the development of digital health technologies changes our understanding of health and illness. Digital technologies are transgressive in important ways: They go beyond curative and preventive medicine and cross over to a kind of medicine that caters to desires of enhancement and optimisation of the human body. Digital medicine is, first and foremost, a vision: it refers not only to existing technologies, but also to prospective ones. Digital medicine makes a promise: If we succeed with integrating medical knowledge and health related data in a comprehensive way, better therapies and the prevention of illness will be possible. One of the manifestations of this vision are medical avatars. Such digital twins are virtual representations of physiological and psychological conditions of patients and provide a basis for a simulation of health-related processes and the evaluation of therapeutic measures. Using vision assessment as a method, it is the task of sociological analysis to discuss the wider implications of emerging technologies before they materialise. It is of particular interest to study digital health technology as enabler of a comprehensive monitoring and simulation as well as the ways in which they change the mode of intervention in medical practice. Another thing that digital health technologies are changing are traditional conceptions of autonomous subjects. Health becomes a quantifiable target and a practice of optimisation. This, in turn, promotes the economisation of the social, and changes what we do in order to maintain our health and cure or prevent diseases in fundamental ways.  2019, The Author(s).;Avatar
Understanding users information needs and collaborative sensemaking of microbiome data;Recent years are seeing a sharp increase in the availability of personal omic (e.g. genomes, microbiomes) data to non-experts through direct-to-consumer testing kits. While the scientific understanding of human -omic information is evolving, the interpretation of the data may impact well-being of users and relevant others, and therefore poses challenges and opportunities for CSCW research. We identify the information, interaction, and sense-making needs of microbiomic data users, within the broader context of social omics - the sharing and collaborative engagement with data and interpretation. Analyzing users’ discussions on Reddit’s r/HumanMicrobiome, we identified seven user needs for microbiome data: reviewing an annotated report, comparing microbiome data, tracking changes, receiving personalized actionable information, curating and securing information, documenting and sharing self experiments, and enhancing the communication between patients and health-care providers. We highlight the ways in which users interact with each other to collaboratively make sense of the data. We conclude with design implications, including tools for better communication with care providers, and for symptom-centered sharing and discussion.  2019 Association for Computing Machinery.;Collaborative sensemaking
Environment aware privacy-preserving authentication with predictability for medical edge computing;With the development of IoT, smart health has significantly improved the quality of people's life. A large amount of smart health monitoring system has been proposed, which provides an opportunity for timely and efficient diagnosis. Nevertheless, most of them ignored the impact of environment on patients' health. Due to the openness of the communication channel, data security and privacy preservation are crucial problems to be solved. In this work, an environment aware privacy-preserving authentication protocol based on the fuzzy extractor and elliptic curve cryptography (ecc) is designed for health monitoring system with mutual authentication and anonymity. Edge computing unit can authenticate all environmental sensors at one time. Fuzzy synthetic evaluation model is utilized to evaluate the environment equality with the patients' temporal health index (THI) as an assessment factor, which can help to predict the appropriate environment. The session key is established for secure communication based on the predicted result. Through security analysis, the proposed protocol can prevent common attacks. Moreover, performance analysis shows that the proposed protocol is applicable for resource-limited smart devices in edge computing health monitoring system.  2019 IEEE.;Edge computing
A data driven multi-layer framework of pervasive information computing system for ehealthcare;In the last decade, significant advancements in telecommunications and informatics have seen which incredibly boost mobile communications, wireless networks, and pervasive computing. It enables healthcare applications to increase human livelihood. Furthermore, it seems feasible to continuous observation of patients and elderly individuals for their wellbeing. Such pervasive arrangements enable medical experts to analyse current patient status, minimise reaction time, increase livelihood, scalability, and availability. There is found plenty of remote patient monitoring model in literature, and most of them are designed with limited scope. Most of them are lacking to give an overall unified, complete model which talk about all state-of-the-art functionalities. In this regard, remote patient monitoring systems (RPMS's) play important roles through wearable devices to monitor the patient's physiological condition. RPMS also enables the capture of related videos, images, and frames. RPMS do not mean to enable only capturing various sorts of patient-related information, but it also must facilitate analytics, transformation, security, alerts, accessibility, etc. In this view, RPMS must ensure some broad issues like, wearability, adaptability, interoperability, integration, security, and network efficiency. This article proposes a data-driven multi-layer architecture for pervasively remote patient monitoring that incorporates these issues. The system has been classified into five fundamental layers: The data acquisition layer, the data pre-processing layer, the network and data transfer layer, the data management layer and the data accessing layer. It enables patient care at real-time using the network infrastructure efficiently. A detailed discussion on various security issues have been carried out. Moreover, standard deviation-based data reduction and a machine-learning-based data access policy is also proposed.  2019, IGI Global.;Body Sensor Network
Enhanced security of public integrity auditing for outsourced data in cloud storage;Cloud storage is now being used for storing all types of data like financial, medical, legal, technical, etc. and offers significant benefits over local storage. In addition, data access needs to be controlled and regularly audited to prevent unlawful access. The objective of this paper is to offer a secure and efficient public integrity auditing method for dynamic data in a cloud storage with dynamic data operations. In this scheme, the file-sharing and dynamic operations like append, insert, delete, and update uses algebraic signature properties. To minimize the auditing cost, an index table has been used with less difficult operations in contrast to bilinear pairing. This is poised to incur minimum computation overhead at the data owner side. Finally, the performance evaluation shows that the proposed scheme is more secure and efficient in comparison to other presented schemes.  2019 SERSC.;Algebraic signature
KeySED:An Efficient Keyword based Search over Encrypted Data in Cloud Environment;To maintain confidentiality of certain specific data, it is required to encrypt the data by using Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-Based Encryption (CPABE) mechanism, before its upload onto a untrusted cloud server. Moreover either to search an item in a given encrypted data or to carry out required computation is not feasible without compromising the confidentiality. To ease the process of search operation over outsourced encrypted data, it is delegated to the cloud server. The CSP performs the outsourced search only when the user is authorized as per the data owner. Further, the searched result returned by the cloud server should be verified by the user. To address the above issue we propose a fine grained attribute based keyword search model. The authenticity of the user is verified by the cloud server using CPABE technique. Further only authorized users can generate valid trapdoor messages which are used later to perform search operation by the cloud server. The proposed model takes comparatively less computation time in comparison to the considered related existing models. The empirical results and mathematical proof of the proposed model shows that it would be suitable for integration into resource constraint devices.  2019 IEEE.;Cloud Server
A Mondrian-based Utility Optimization Model for Anonymization;Anonymization is a privacy-preserving approach facilitating to protect the identities of data subjects. Besides privacy, anonymization presents a data utility that is very important for data analytics. The accuracy of a data analytics model, which is created on anonymous data, depends on the utility provided by anonymization. While there exist some factors directly affecting data utility such as privacy level, anonymization operators, anonymization algorithm, etc. Recent studies presented that outliers are another factor that affects data utility too. In the anonymization domain, outliers are accepted as 'a group of data that decreases total data utility'. In this paper, in order to maximize the data utility, a new data utility model is proposed and applied to Mondrian for the first time. A general outlier-based utility evaluation function is also introduced to measure this utility for the first time. Experimental results have shown that the proposed model improves data utility and presents higher utility than Mondrian. The proposed function might be also used as a reliable tool for outlier-based utility-aware anonymization models.  2019 IEEE.;Anonymization
Record linkage to enhance consented cohort and routinely collected health data from a UK birth cohort;Background: In longitudinal health research, combining the richness of cohort data to the extensiveness of routine data opens up new possibilities, providing information not available from one data source alone. In this study, we set out to extend information from a longitudinal birth cohort study by linking to the cohort child's routine primary and secondary health care data. The resulting linked datasets will be used to examine health outcomes and patterns of health service utilisation for a set of common childhood health problems. We describe the experiences and challenges of acquiring and linking electronic health records for participants in a national longitudinal study, the UK Millennium Cohort Study (MCS). Method: Written parental consent to link routine health data to survey responses of the MCS cohort member, mother and her partner was obtained for 90.7% of respondents when interviews took place at age seven years in the MCS. Probabilistic and deterministic linkage was used to link MCS cohort members to multiple routinely-collected health data sources in Wales and Scotland. Results: Overall linkage rates for the consented population using country-specific health service data sources were 97.6% for Scotland and 99.9% for Wales. Linkage rates between different health data sources ranged from 65.3% to 99.6%. Issues relating to acquisition and linkage of data sources are discussed. Conclusions: Linking longitudinal cohort participants with routine data sources is becoming increasingly popular in population data research. Our results suggest that this is a valid method to enhance information held in both sources of data.  2019 The Authors.;
Recent advances on big data analysis for malaria prediction and various diagnosis methodologies;Malaria, being a prevalent disease caused by the Plasmodium species in urban areas, requires a fast and efficient system to control. To deal with this issue, various techniques such as big data analysis for malaria prediction and diagnosis models (clinical diagnosis, manual microscopic examination, quantitative Buffy coat, rapid diagnostic test, computerized diagnosis) have been developed. In this study, various malaria predictions as well as screening models have been reviewed. It analyzed the importance of disease prediction based on different approaches, and diagnosis systems using various techniques. Prediction model includes big data analysis based on data such as environmental data, clinical data, etc. Diagnosis model requires blood smears preparation and examining the blood components present in the smears. In clinical and manual blood smear examination, diagnosis is done by clinical expert. Practically, manual microscopic blood smear observation remains the gold standard method for malaria screening. However, the visual malaria screening has limited reliability, i.e., time consuming and erroneousness. To overcome these, computerized diagnosis systems have been reported. In the computerized diagnosis system, different techniques, i.e., erythrocyte classification and parasite segmentation, have been evolved for malaria diagnoses. The analysis of the importance of the various features, feature selection techniques and classifiers has also been done for computerized diagnosis techniques.  2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.;Big data analysis
Security and privacy solutions for smart healthcare systems;Smart healthcare can benefit patients and care providers. However, several challenges exist related to security and privacy. Security solutions have been developed to protect e-health users and medical databases;
Research challenges in the internet of things (iots);In the age of the technology and in the field of Computer Networking, devices integrated with the Internet of Things (IoT) resulted in a variety of popular E-Health, E-Commerce and E-Home. The Internet of Things will be next revolutionary term in the today internet. An important function of the IoT is to create various types of technologies, standards and then to integrate them. Today, the capacities of IoT are improving by establishing security for both small and large applications. To help and determine the direction of future research, IoT security challenges and privacy issues will be highlighted in this chapter. The chapter analyzes compares and consolidates the existing research, presents new findings and discusses innovations in the security of the IoT. The challenges in this chapter must be addressed, if the full potential of IoT is to be realized.  2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;ICTs
Domain Formalization for Metaphorical Reasoning;It is commonplace that cultural heritage is always discussed and analysed by using references to figures of speech. In particular, metaphors and allegories are very frequent in ancient and historical documents, painting and sculptures. It is also frequent to have some hints about the assets and their authors by comparing their contents with elements in the domain of the figures of speech to which the asset refer. In order to enable reasoning by figures of speech, we propose here a methodology able to link concepts in the domain of cultural assets with concepts in the domain of the figure of speech. We show here how reasoning in all these domains help in discovering some elements related to the cultural heritage that humans may neglect at first glance. Our approach can be useful in a variety of applications related to cultural heritage such as semantics annotations, linked data, crowd-sensing, etc.  2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;
Leveraging Users' Trust and Reputation in Social Networks;In on line communities, where there is a huge number of users that interact under anonymous identities, it has been observed that e-word of mouth is a very powerful influence tool. So far, this technology is well known in on-line marketplaces, such as Amazon1, eBay2 or travel based platforms like Tripadvisor or Booking. However, these trust based approach can be leverage in other scenarios from e-democracy to trust based recommendations on e-health context and e-learning systems. The purpose of this contribution is to analyse the main existing trust and reputation mechanisms and to point out new research challenges that needs to be accomplished with the objective of fully exploiting these systems in real world on-line communities.  2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.;e-word of mouth
Performing analysis of quality of service parameters of 4G long term evolution in health care system;Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a leading 4G wireless broadband technology developed by the Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Release 8. LTE is expected to provide very fast, highly responsive and cost effective data services and appears itself to be the right technology at the right time. LTE is becoming an ultimate choice for 4G services around the world due to its higher data rates and lower latency objectives. E-Health services comprise a wide range of healthcare services delivered by utilizing information and communication technology. In order to help existing and emerging e-Health services over converged next generation network (NGN) architectures, there is a need for network QoS control mechanisms that meet the often stringent requirements of such services. The mobile Health (m-health) is currently uniting major academic research worldwide to achieve innovative arrangements in the areas of healthcare. However, there are several challenges and issues that need to be addressed. In this paper we have proposed m-health care system based on 4G LTE network communication instead of existing 3G communication system. We will be monitoring QoS parameters like Delay, Throughput, Jitter, Energy Efficiency and Packet Data Rate for comparing 3G and 4G LTE usage over health care applications. We will further experiment the parameters with graph based analysis. Copyright  2019 American Scientific Publishers All rights reserved.;4G
APDP: Attack-Proof Personalized Differential Privacy Model for a Smart Home;The proliferation of smart devices in recent years has led to novel smart home applications that upgrade traditional home appliances to intelligent units and automatically adapt their services without human assistance. In a smart home system, a central gateway is required to coordinate the functions of various smart home devices and allow bidirectional communications. However, the gateway may cause leakage of sensitive information unless proper privacy protections are applied. In this work, we first introduce a smart home model based on fog computing and secured by differential privacy. Then, we apply a personalized differential privacy scheme to provide privacy protection. Furthermore, we consider a collusion attack and propose our differential privacy model called APDP based on a modified Laplace mechanism and a Markov process to strengthen privacy protection, thus resisting the attack. Lastly, we perform extensive experiments based on the real-world datasets to evaluate the proposed APDP model.  2013 IEEE.;differential privacy
Ubiquitous Healthcare Systems and Medical Rules in COPD Domain;Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a severe lung illness that causes a progressive deterioration in the function and structure of the respiratory system. Recently, COPD became the fifth cause of mortality and the seventh cause of morbidity in Canada. The advancement of context-aware technology creates a new and important opportunity to transform the standard shape of healthcare services into a more dynamic and interactive form. This research project design and validates a rule-based ontology-reasoning framework that provides a context-aware system for COPD patients. The originality of the proposed approach consists in its methodology to prove the efficiency of this model in simulated examples of real-life scenarios based on collaborative data analysis, recognized by specialized medical experts.  The Author(s) 2019.;Context-aware system
Predicting tomorrow’s headline using twitter deliberations;Predicting the popularity of a news article is a challenging task. Existing literature mostly focused on article contents and polarity to predict the popularity. However, existing research has not considered the users preference towards a particular article. Understanding users preference is an important aspect for predicting the popularity of news articles. Hence, we consider social media data, from the Twitter platform, to address this research gap. In our proposed model, we have considered the users involvement as well as the users reaction towards an article to predict the popularity of the article. In short, we are predicting tomorrows headline by probing todays Twitter discussion. We have considered 300 political news articles from the New York Post, and our proposed approach has outperformed other baseline models. Copyright  CIKM 2018.;
Knowledge-based Service for African Traditional Herbal Medicine: A hybrid approach;Globally, the acceptance and use of herbal and traditional medicine is on the rise. Africa, especially Ghana, has its populace resorting to African Traditional Herbal Medicine (ATHMed) for their healthcare needs due to its potency and accessibility. However, the practice involving its preparation and administration has come into question. Even more daunting is the poor and inadequate documentation covering the preservation and retrieval of knowledge on ATHMed for long-term use, resulting in invaluable healthcare knowledge being lost. Consequently, there is the need to adopt strategies to help curtail the loss of such healthcare knowledge, for the benefit of ATHMed stakeholders in healthcare delivery, industry and academia. This paper proposes a hybrid-based computational knowledge framework for the preservation and retrieval of traditional herbal medicine. By the hybrid approach, the framework proposes the use of machine learning and ontology-based techniques. While reviewing literature to reflect the existing challenges, this paper discusses current technologies suited to approach them. This results in a framework that embodies an ontology driven knowledge-based system operating on a semantically annotated corpus that delivers a contextual search pattern, geared towards a formalized, explicit preservation and retrieval mechanism for safeguarding ATHMed knowledge. Copyright  2019 by SCITEPRESS - Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved;African Traditional Herbal Medicine
Multi-stage context-aware data filtering technique for body sensor networks (BSNs);Background: In the recent times, e-health applications have been trending for providing timely and effective services to the patients. Remote patient monitoring technology plays a significant role in managing the health of patients through computerized systems and tiny devices known as sensors. These wearable sensor devices can measure the patient’s physiological data and provide personal care to patients when integrated with remote monitoring system. Precise information about patients’ physiological parameters along with their activities and location is highly beneficial for determination of patient’s exact health condition. Sometimes, non-repeated but un-necessary data is transmitted which shows the same status of patient’s health condition for extended period. This redundant data transmission only increases processing overhead, transmission time, energy consumption and leads to wastage of memory. Method: The multi-stage context-aware data filtering technique proposed in this work aims to reduce the overall volume of body sensor data that needs to be transmitted which helps in significantly reducing aforementioned overheads. The proposed data filtering technique is divided into three stages, where first stage is context based range determination, wherein the Normal Range (NR) is modified based on geographical and environmental context to yield Context Based Range (R). In the second stage, deviation of the data is calculated from the Context Based Range (R) acquired from previous stage. The third and final stage carries out selective transmission of data with priority to the sensor values where the deviation is maximum from the context based normal range. The performance of proposed filtering technique has been measured using Castalia Framework. Results: The simulation carried out using OMNET++ based Castalia framework shows that the proposed context based data filtering algorithm results in reduction of 14.5% in the volume of data to be transmitted to the health server. Conclusion: The proposed algorithm filters out the false positives in the sensed values of physiological parameters thereby achieving significant reduction in the volume of data to be transmitted.  2019, Institute of Advanced Scientific Research, Inc. All rights reserved.;Data filtering
Secondary use of clinical data for scientific research purposes in the ditas project;Thanks to the advent of the digital revolution, coupled with advances in computing power, medical research is becoming increasingly data intensive. Extracting meaningful information from data sets and continuous flood of data is a challenge but holds unparalleled potential for observational studies on, e.g., the use and safety of drugs and rare diseases, epidemiological studies and digital disease detection. At the same time Cloud computing is used for two main reasons in secondary health research: first, to allow large-scale digital health data processing using readily scalable, external infrastructure;
Dr. AI  where did you get your degree?;Federal health agencies are currently developing regulatory strategies for Artificial Intelligence based medical products. Regulatory regimes need to account for the new risks and benefits that come with modern AI, including safety concerns and unique opportunities, like the potential for autonomous learning, that makes AI dramatically different from traditional static medical products. The current default regulatory regime is to treat AI like a medical device (i.e., as opposed to like a drug or a biologic product). As agencies like the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) develop new regulation to cover the uniqueness of AI, we suggest they consider adopting aspects of regulation traditionally used in the practice of medicine (i.e., doctors). In fact, FDA is currently undergoing a pilot that moves in that direction. We propose that AI regulation in the medical domain can analogously adopt aspects of the models used to regulate medical providers. We provide this view point to encourage discussion of how medical AI might be regulated. In doing so, we will also review several issues our framework does not resolve.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.;Clinical applications
Anonymization techniques for protecting privacy: A survey;Anonymization is one of fruitful privacy protection technique used in various technology fields such as data mining, cloud computing, big data to secure very sensitive data against third party. In today's world, the value and the amount of data is increasing, hence the protection of data against all possible threats are equally necessary. This paper focuses a brief on data anonymization and differential privacy techniques. Various anonymization techniques which are researched by various researchers across various fields have limitations such as communication and computation cost overhead, accuracy of results after data Anonymization and possibility of different types of attacks. The paper discussed all these issues and their counter-measures through readings of various papers. Finally, this paper presents detailed discussion about existing anonymization techniques (Data anonymization and differential privacy), their comparative analysis by leaving a footprints of future research directions.  2018 IEEE.;Anonymization
Security requirements and technologies for the internet of things (IOT) applications: A systematic literature review;Security requirement is one of the most important intangible requirements which could be taken as a burden on the smooth functioning of the system or application. Requirements engineers without expertise in security are at risk of overlooking security requirement, which frequently leads to the act of misuse. This study plans to identify the security requirements and technologies being used in IoT applications. We conducted a systematic literature review in order to identify and analyse related literature on elicitation of security requirements for IoT applications. We found that the most used technologies for IoT applications are sensors, mobility networks, RFID systems, WiFi, Bluetooth and Zigbee and the security requirements that are relevant for IoT applications are authentication, confidentiality, integrity, authorization, access control and availability. Finally, the characteristics and properties of the security requirements and technologies were also discussed. It can be concluded that the primary challenge of security requirements is to identify the most appropriate security requirements. Furthermore, requirement engineers should consider challenges posed by security requirements such as to analyse and develop security requirements for IoT applications. In addition, right security requirements for IoT applications should be recognized at the early phase of IoT applications development.  2005 – ongoing JATIT & LLS.;Internet of things
Efficient Binary-Encoding Access Control Policy Combination for Large-Scale Collaborative Scenarios;Collaboration among organizations is an important part in an e-business or e-health service. In this case, it is necessary for each organization to share their data with each other in order to provide better services. However, each organization may have specified a set of secure access control policies for shared data, resulting in policy conflicts or differences in a collaboration scenario. Therefore, it is critical to generate an integrated global access control policy for shared common data. Due to low efficiency queries and large memory space, current approaches in security policy integration cannot be applied to large-scale collaboration scenarios. In this paper, we present a binary-encoding policy integration method that can quickly seek the combinable rule sets and easily merge single access control policy into a global policy set. The main idea is that first each policy is converted to a triple, namely <attribute, action, constraint>, then to encode all attributes and actions in each rule in a binary form, after that to shift and weighted code so as to get combined attribute code, finally to sort code and merge rules. Compared with similar researches, our work can reduce the integration time by 34%, and the integration time is stable as the number of attributes increases, hence quite suitable for the large-scale collaborative scenarios.  2018 IEEE.;access control
Cognitive informatics and computational intelligence: From information revolution to intelligence revolution;Cognitive Informatics (CI) is a contemporary multidisciplinary field spanning across computer science, information science, cognitive science, brain science, intelligence science, knowledge science, cognitive linguistics, and cognitive philosophy. Cognitive Computing (CC) is a novel paradigm of intelligent computing methodologies and systems based on CI that implements computational intelligence by autonomous inferences and perceptions mimicking the mechanisms of the brain. This paper reports a set of position statements presented in the plenary panel of IEEE ICCI*CC'14 on Cognitive Informatics and Cognitive Computing. The summary is contributed by invited panelists who are part of the world's renowned researchers and scholars in the transdisciplinary field of cognitive informatics and cognitive computing.  2018, IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Deconstructing stigma in mental health;Stigma continues to play an integral role in the multifaceted issues facing mental health. While identifying a clear operational definition of stigma has been a challenge in the field, the issues related to stigma grossly affect not only the mental health population but society as a whole. Deconstructing Stigma in Mental Health provides emerging research on issues related to stigma as a whole including ignorance, prejudice, and discrimination. While highlighting issues such as stigma and its role in mental health and how stigma is perpetuated in society, this publication explores the historical context of stigma, current issues and resolutions through intersectional collaboration, and the deconstruction of mental health stigmas. This book is a valuable resource for mental health administrators and clinicians, researchers, educators, policy makers, and psychology professionals seeking information on current mental health stigma trends.  2018 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Information visualization techniques in the social sciences and humanities;The representation of abstract data and ideas can be a difficult and tedious task to handle when learning new concepts;
Psycholinguistics and cognition in language processing;The relationship between language and psychology is one that has been studied for centuries. Influencing one another, these two fields uncover how the human mind's processes are interrelated. Psycholinguistics and Cognition in Language Processing is a critical scholarly resource that examines the mystery of language and the obscurity of psychology using innovative studies. Featuring coverage on a broad range of topics, such as language acquisition, emotional aspects in foreign language learning, and speech learning model, this book is geared towards linguists, academicians, practitioners, and researchers, seeking current research on the cognitive and emotional synthetisation of multilingualism.  2018 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Smart Energy Management;Smart energy management is the path to achieve the management and operational objectives of smart energy systems (SESs). First, some related concepts of smart energy management are introduced. The evolution of energy systems in four stages and the three dimensions of smart energy management are also proposed. Then the overall structure and key technologies of SESs are provided, followed by the introduction of the composition of energy big data and its application in demand side management (DSM). Furthermore, the Ubiquitous Energy Internet in China, the smart energy management in smart buildings, smart manufacturing, and smart transportation are discussed as case studies of smart energy management. Finally, the research paradigms of smart energy management are presented and future directions are pointed out.  2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.;Demand side management
A new sustainable interchain design on transport layer for blockchain;Blockchain is the technology architecture to provide reliable and trustworthy services for the transactions on Internet. Blockchain can remove the middleman or the third parties from the chain of the transactions, which will make the sellers and buyers complete the transactions directly without the help from the other parties. When blockchains are widely used in different areas, a problem is emerging: how to exchange the information among different blockchains. Traditionally, a public blockchain is used to link to the two blockchains which need to exchange their information. Such design can provide a solution to the cross-chain problem. However, there will be three blockchains involved in the data exchange. In this article, a cross-chain protocol is proposed to solve the cross-chain problem. This cross-chain protocol is called Unitary Interchain Network Protocol on Transport Layer (UINP), which supports cross-chain mechanism from the transport-layer. UINP is used in Unitary Blockchain network, and it can give the low latency convenience to blockchain networks that built on the application-layer.  2018, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;Blockchain
Review on blockchain application for internet of things;Internet of Things (IoT) is a network that connects lots of smart devices around the world. As a revolutionary technology, it has been developing rapidly in recent years. This paper summarizes the obstacles of IoT in terms of security and efficient operation network and introduces the Blockchain to solve these problems. Nowadays, many IoT application use the traditional central structure and collect all data in one center node. However, with connected devices on the rise, it is required that the center node should have a huge computing power, storage space and bandwidth, thus making the operation cost become higher. For IoT, another focus is all about private and security. All transaction data are stored in the third party, which means hackers can break security barriers and steal user information easily. Moreover, some businessmen will sell user information to other parties without owner’s authorization. Through this paper we find that Blockchain can provide a distributed, transparent platform with trustless mechanism and collective maintenance of security for the IoT. But, applying Blockchain directly to IoT may result in many problems, such as limited resource, longer delays, poor scalability. At present, there is not a Blockchain model which can be applied in large scale IoT networks. The future study can be followed along this line.  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018.;Blockchain
PSHCAR: A position-irrelevant scene-aware human complex activities recognizing algorithm on mobile phones;Recognizing human complex activities has become an essential topic in pervasive computing research area. With the growing popularity of mobile phones, more and more studies have been dedicated to identifying human complex activities using mobile phones in recent years. However, previous works often restrain the position and orientation of cell phones which limit the applicability of their methods. To overcome this limitation, we propose a novel position-irrelevant activities identification method named PSHCAR, which efficiently utilize information from multiple sensors on smartphones. Moreover, besides commonly-used features such as accelerometer and gyroscope, PSHCAR also employ the knowledge about scenes of activities, which is helpful but ignored by previous works, to identify complex activities of mobile phone users. Comparative experiments show that our method performs better than several strong baselines on the task of human complex activities recognition. In conclusion, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance without any limitation on position or orientation of mobile phones.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018.;Activity recognition
A social media platform for infectious disease analytics;The effect of seasonal epidemics and potentially pandemics represents a significant issue for public health. In this context, early warnings and real time tracking of the spread of disease is highly desirable. In this paper, we address the problem of detecting disease outbreaks through an automated, scalable Cloud-based system for collecting, tracking and analyzing social media data. Specifically, the focus here is targeted to three prevalent diseases (flu, chickenpox and measles) across three Australian cities using data from the Twitter micro-blogging platform. The epidemics related tweets are extracted using an ensemble learning classifier consisting of a combination of Support Vector Machines, Naïve Bayes and Logistic Regression and comparing the results with the Google Trend data to assess the effectiveness of the overall approach.  Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2018.;Big data
Towards Adaptive Monitoring Services for Self-Adaptive Software Systems;In order to deal with the great diversity of execution contexts, modern software systems rely on feedback control loops and external monitoring services for observing them and their environment, and respond to context changes through adaptation. In this process, the monitoring services play a crucial role since the quality of the monitoring data (e.g., timeliness, freshness, accuracy, availability, etc.) affects directly the self-adaptation decisions. Most of the current approaches supporting monitoring for self-adaptive systems (SASs) assume that the monitors are static components and they do not change at runtime. Due to the dynamism of execution contexts mentioned before, this vision is not valid anymore. Nowadays, monitoring services need to be adaptive as well, in order to respond to context changes, e.g., new measures to collect are required or a monitor service failure occurs at runtime. The complexity of handling monitoring services adaptation in coordination with SASs operation challenges and offers new opportunities to software engineers. In order to address this challenge, this research proposes to extend the adaptation logic of modern SASs with an external MAPE-K loop for managing the adaptation process of the monitoring services participating in the SASs adaptation logic. Different algorithmic, statistical, modeling and stochastic analysis and decision-making techniques are being explored for implementing this loop. Moreover, a reusable architecture for enacting the adaptation decisions in the monitoring services is being developed. The approach will be evaluated in two systems: a self-adaptive smart vehicle and a real self-adaptive video streaming service.  Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2018.;Adaptive monitoring services
Trust and provenance in communication to ehealth consumers;[No abstract available];
The internet of things and assistive technologies for people with disabilities: Applications,  trends,  and issues;With the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the past two decades have seen a proliferation of Assistive Technology (AT) and its enabling impact on the lives of people with disabilities in the areas of accessing information, communication, and daily living activities. Due to recent emergence of the Internet of Things (IoT), the fields of rehabilitation, healthcare, and education are challenged to incorporate the IoT applications into current AT services. While IoT applications continue to be developed and integrated into AT, they are still at a primitive stage where clear guidelines are yet to be developed and benefits are yet to be substantiated to ensure the quality of lives of people with disabilities. This chapter provides an overview of the IoT and AT integrated applications based on the building blocks of the IoT, along with recent trends and issues relevant to accessing technology for people with disabilities.  2017 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
The activity of resource allocation;In this chapter, we address the resource allocation, which is the main activity in a holistic resource management process for Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystems. We discuss existing approaches that tackle the challenges of providing a resource allocation system for the IoT. We focus our discussion on works addressing the challenges from an architectural point of view, proposing the main components involved in the resource allocation activity along with their functionalities and operation. Existing proposals differ in several aspects, but in this chapter, we group them according to the number of tiers involved in the resource allocation. First, we discuss works focused on the cloud tier, in which the main players in the allocation process are the virtualized data centres at the cloud. In such proposals, the IoT devices are passive entities only in charge of producing data to be processed at the cloud. Then, we discuss approaches that distribute the workload between the IoT devices and the cloud. Following, we present the proposals in which the main players in the resource allocation process are the IoT devices themselves, the so-called IoT only approached. Finally, we briefly present works that exploit resource utilization at the edge of the network, thus adopting a three-tier architecture for IoT and dealing with the allocation process considering these three tiers, with their distinct features.  The Author(s) 2017.;Cloud computing
Exploring utility of extended misusability measure for data publications;When data is published in the real world it is essential to ensure that privacy is not disclosed and the data is not misused. In our study earlier we proposed an extended misusability measure that helps in finding the probability of misuse of given dataset. The measure takes single or multiple publications as input and generates misusability score. This score determines the level of misusability possible with the given dataset. The misusability leads to possible disclosure of privacy. By computing misusability score, it is possible to anonymize sensitive attributes to achieve privacy preserving data publications and data mining as well. In this study, our aim is to demonstrate the real utility of our extended misusability measure. We proposed a framework with an underlying algorithm to sanitize data before publishing it or before it is subjected to mining. The proposed algorithm employs the measure and determines the need for sanitizing datasets. The algorithm in turn uses K-anonymity which one of the standard sanitization algorithms for preventing privacy attacks on the datasets. We built a prototype application that demonstrates the proof of concept. The empirical results revealed that our misusability measure has significant impact on the privacy preserving data publishing and privacy preserving data mining.  Medwell Journals, 2017.;Anonymization
Efficient and secure certificateless proxy re-encryption;In this paper, we present an IND-CCA2 secure certificateless proxy re-encryption scheme in the random oracle model. A certificateless public key cryptography simplifies the certificate management in a traditional public key infrastructure and the built-in key escrow feature in an identity-based public key cryptography. Our scheme shares the merits of certificateless public key encryption cryptosystems and proxy re-encryption cryptosystems. Our certificateless proxy re-encryption scheme has several practical and useful properties - namely, multi-use, unidirectionality, non-interactivity, non-transitivity and so on. The security of our scheme bases on the standard bilinear Diffie-Hellman and the decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman assumptions.  2017 KSII.;Bilinear pairing
What can the big data eco-system and data analytics do for E-health? A smooth review study;In this paper we present a global overview of the present usage and future trends of the different big data ecosystems in the EHealth’s scientific domains. Indeed, bioinformaticians as well as medicine practitioners are actually generating very large amounts of data, and thus storing, managing, and analyzing these large scale data-sets still represent a big challenge. The used Big Data ecosystems are involved at different steps of the production chain, i.e., from the acquisition of both structured and non-structured data, the storage in traditional and/or NoSQL databases, and finally the analytics using the Map Reduce framework. We will discuss in this smooth survey, all these parts of the ecosystem and will give some use cases on real data-sets in the domain.  Springer International Publishing AG 2017.;Big data
Socio-technical systems on the move: Some insights for policy activity;Because of the advancements in Information Communication Technologies (ICTs), and notably the increased spreading of Web 2.0 Internet-based services and mobile computing, an increasingly information-rich environment is made available, where new types of Socio-Technical Systems (STS) can be established. Due to the pervasiveness of ICT, designing and developing Socio-Technical Systems is raising an increasing interest also from a policy point of view. They play a crucial role in the improvement of the so-called soft-infrastructures, a main asset for delivering social innovation. Raising the performance of such an infrastructure, in fact, turns out to be a major challenge to be addressed in order to meet EU requirements for smart growth. In this chapter, a concept of STS is suggested, and its ICT-enabled implications for policy activity are highlighted. As an example, the concept is used for designing a collaborative platform for health knowledge exchange at a regional level.  2017 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Cloud-based monitoring for patients with dementia;Demographic changes are resulting in a rapidly growing elderly population with healthcare implications which importantly include dementia, which is a condition that requires long-term support and care to manage the negative behavioural symptoms. In order to optimise the management of healthcare professionals and provide an enhanced quality of life for patients and carers alike, Remote Electronic Health Monitoring forms a crucial role. This requires myriad functions and components to achieve patient monitoring while accommodating the technological, medical, legal, regulatory, ethical, and privacy considerations. The chapter considers the relevant components and functions of the current state-of-the-art to the provision of effective Remote Electronic Health Monitoring. The authors present the background and related research, and then they focus on the technological aspects of Remote Electronic Health Monitoring to which Cloud-Based Systems and the closely related Cloud Service Modules are central. A number of scenarios to illustrate the concepts are discussed in the chapter.  2016 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Cloud-based monitoring for patients with dementia;Demographic changes are resulting in a rapidly growing elderly population with healthcare implications which importantly include dementia, which is a condition that requires long-term support and care to manage the negative behavioural symptoms. In order to optimise the management of healthcare professionals and provide an enhanced quality of life for patients and carers alike, Remote Electronic Health Monitoring forms a crucial role. This requires myriad functions and components to achieve patient monitoring while accommodating the technological, medical, legal, regulatory, ethical, and privacy considerations. The chapter considers the relevant components and functions of the current state-of-the-art to the provision of effective Remote Electronic Health Monitoring. The authors present the background and related research, and then they focus on the technological aspects of Remote Electronic Health Monitoring to which Cloud-Based Systems and the closely related Cloud Service Modules are central. A number of scenarios to illustrate the concepts are discussed in the chapter.  2015, IGI Global. Copying or distributing in print or electronic forms without written permission of IGI Global is prohibited.;
Variations on a rating scale: The effect on extreme response tendency in product ratings;Product ratings have become an integral element of online businesses especially for experience goods yet seem to be prone to biases that shift most of the distribution towards the extreme points of th scales. Response biases due to inherent traits (such as acquiescence or extreme response style) ar widely investigated in survey design and marketing research, yet little is known about how the ratin scale variations in user generated product evaluations influence their formation. More precisely, in a experimental study in the context of movie ratings, I show that the use of emotional labels attracts user to the endpoints of the rating scale but their responses are less susceptible to extreme respons tendency when the size of the rating scale is increased. Also, simply priming the midpoint of the scal reduces extreme responses, though this effect is attenuated when emotional labels are used. Such effect remain consistent when I account for response styles, cultural dimensions and individual characteristics The broad use of product ratings in generating personalized recommendations and predictin market performance necessitates a discussion on how to better account for potential distortions i these ratings due to variations in the rating scale.;Product Rating Scales
Big data paradigm for healthcare sector;The digitization of world in various areas including health care domain has brought up remarkable changes. Electronic Health Records (EHRs) have emerged for maintaining and analyzing health care real data online unlike traditional paper based system to accelerate clinical environment for providing better healthcare. These digitized health care records are form of Big Data, not because of the fact they are voluminous but also they are real time, dynamic, sporadic and heterogeneous in nature. It is desirable to extract relevant information from EHRs to facilitate various stakeholders of the clinical environment. The role, scope and impact of Big Data paradigm on health care is discussed in this chapter.  2016 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.;
Medical diagnosis support system for disease prevention and its interface;This paper describes the prototype of a diagnosis support system for preventing disease and its interface. The paradigm shift from disease treatment to its prevention is to be advocated. Also improving lifestyles at an early stage of diseases and a better comprehension of clinical data are important. To promote this paradigm shift, we construct a prototype of a medical diagnosis system that supports not only counselors but also clients. Our system is implemented as a web server linked to the public network so counselors and clients can easily access the system from remote clinics and even private homes. Its userfriendly interface allows clients to comprehend the clinical data even without the counselor's support. Subjective evaluations using the SD method show that our system is superior to printed material and receives high scores for favorability and functionality.  2010 IEEE.;Clinical data
Blockchain based dynamic patient consent: A privacy-preserving data acquisition architecture for clinical data analytics;Clinical intelligence gathered from data analytics plays a significant role in the development of preventive measures and aids the decision-making process. However, due to the scattered and distributed nature of digital healthcare records, accessing data for analytics has become a huge challenge. The main reason for that is data custodians being reluctant to disseminate the records to the external entities due to security and privacy concerns. As the ultimate ownership of medical records lies with the individual patient, this is best resolved by integrating patient consent with existing access control mechanisms. Recently, blockchain has been shown as a promising technology to provide secure and privacy-preserving data sharing on distributed and decentralized environments. Therefore, to cater the requirement of privacy-preserving data acquisition for clinical data analytics in the modern digital health networks, we propose a dynamic consent management architecture leveraging blockchain technology and smart contracts adhering to six key design goals.  40th International Conference on Information Systems, ICIS 2019. All rights reserved.;Blockchain in healthcare
